.. post:: 2023-01-26
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The PSF is hiring a Security Developer-in-Residence!
====================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/01/the-psf-is-hiring-security-developer-in.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is happy to announce the launch of a
year-long security enhancement initiative that will include a security audit
and the creation of a new Security Developer-in-Residence role. Generous
funding by the OpenSSF’s Alpha-Omega Project has made this work possible.  
  
Recent open source supply chain security attacks on open source projects and
infrastructure have increased awareness of the critical role projects like
Python and the `Python Package Index  <https://pypi.org/>`_(PyPI) play in
providing a safe and secure ecosystem for millions of open source users.
Historically, the Python Software Foundation’s ability to make key security
improvements has only been realized when dedicated teams of volunteers or its
existing infrastructure staff make time, or when it has received occasional
grants, such as the `introduction of 2FA and other security improvements to
PyPI in 2019 <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/03/commencing-security-
accessibility-and.html>`_.  
  
The Security Developer-in-Residence will work full-time during the initiative
to formalize existing security practices and become more proactive in Python-
related security improvements. The new role will be responsible for addressing
security issues across PSF projects such as CPython and PyPI, and applying
knowledge and expertise and working with volunteers to implement key
improvements in a timely manner. They will also establish new processes and
features that make it easier to prevent, detect, and respond to security risks
to lay a foundation that makes it easier and more sustainable for the
community to identify and address security issues going forward.  
  
The Security Developer-in-Residence job is posted
`HERE <https://jobs.pyfound.org/apply/TwgMP1b4OV/Security-Developer-In-
Residence>`_. Please take a look and and share with your friends and colleagues.  
  
This role is funded by a substantial investment from the `Open Software
Security Foundation <https://openssf.org/>`_’s `Alpha-Omega
Project <https://openssf.org/community/alpha-omega/>`_. The OpenSSF is a non-
profit cross-industry collaboration that brings together leaders to improve
the security of open source software by building a broader community, targeted
initiatives, and best practices. The OpenSSF brings together open source
security initiatives under one foundation to accelerate work through cross-
industry support.  
  
The PSF is a non-profit whose mission is to promote, protect, and advance the
Python programming language, and to support and facilitate the growth of a
diverse and international community of Python programmers. The PSF supports
the Python community using corporate sponsorships, grants, and donations. Are
you interested in sponsoring or donating to the PSF so it can continue
supporting Python and its community? Check out our `sponsorship
program <https://www.python.org/sponsors/application/>`_, `donate directly
here <https://psfmember.org/civicrm/contribute/transact?reset=1&id=2>`_, or
`contact our team <mailto:sponsors@python.org>`_!

