.. post:: 2014-08-14
   :tags: pycon, post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Portland Chosen as PyCon 2016/2017 Location
===========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2014/08/portland-chosen-as-pycon-20162017.html>`_.

After a thorough evaluation of several potential host cities, the Python
Software Foundation has chosen *Portland, Oregon* as the next location for
`PyCon <https://us.pycon.org/2015/>`_. Following PyCon 2015, taking place in
Montréal for the second time, Portland will play home to PyCon for 2016 and
2017.

  

"This was the first site I had visited where all of the vendors knew of open
source software before I arrived. Because Portland is so familiar with the OSS
world, I became confident that as a city, they can help make PyCon 2016/17
very successful," said PSF Event Coordinator Ewa Jodlowska.

  
Portland edged out several other cities in the running, and will make for a
great home to PyCon. Several other technology conferences call Portland home,
including OSCON, which hosted the last International Python Conference, the
precursor to PyCon.  
  
The conference will take place in May of 2016 and 2017, a departure from the
recent March and April events of the past. "This will be a great time to visit
the Lan Su Chinese Garden, Japanese Garden, Rose Garden, and Arboretum,"
remarked Jodlowska. The city's wide array of restaurants and entertainment
will make for an all around great time. "The city offers great coffee
roasters, microbreweries, bakeries, pizza, fine dining, crazy donuts, and best
of all FOOD CARTS!"  
  
Following PyCon's trip into Canada, the Portland PyCons will represent the
seventh location of PyCon, coming after Washington, D.C.; Dallas, Texas;
Chicago, Illinois; Atlanta, Georgia; Santa Clara, California; and Montréal,
Quebec, Canada.  
  
As the final dates for the Portland events become available, we'll be sure to
announce them here and on the `PyCon <http://pycon.blogspot.com/>`_ blog.

