.. post:: 2021-04-13
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The PSF is hiring a Python Packaging Project Manager!
=====================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/04/the-psf-is-hiring-python-packaging.html>`_.

Thanks to a two-year grant commitment from Bloomberg, our second 2021
Visionary Sponsor and a long term committed supporter of the Python ecosystem,
The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is hiring a full-time project and
community manager for the Python Packaging ecosystem, with a specific focus on
the Python Package Index (PyPI).

We are excited about the opportunities that partnerships like these can
provide for our community and know that this one will serve as a model for
what can be accomplished when organizations make investments in entire
ecosystems rather than individual initiatives.

Bloomberg has been a Python Software Foundation sponsor since 2017. We greatly
appreciate their support. You can read more about how Bloomberg is supporting
the Python ecosystem, and why theyâ€™re interested in improving the Python
Packaging ecosystem, on the `Tech At Bloomberg
blog <https://www.techatbloomberg.com/blog/supporting-the-python-community-by-
shifting-left>`_.

About the role
--------------

Over time, the Python packaging ecosystem has grown to span numerous software
projects, standards, and use cases within the Python community. This growth
and specialization of projects has helped bring the Python community to where
it is, but has posed challenges in coordinating important changes across the
entire ecosystem. Major projects in the space include PyPI, pip, virtualenv,
wheel, setuptools, twine, and packaging.python.org.

The project manager will oversee improvements and added functionality that
will benefit all Python users while leading the development of PyPI into a
sustainable service. Working with the PSF Director of Resource Development to
fund work throughout the packaging ecosystem. This role will also serve as a
community manager to solicit feedback and facilitate discussions amongst
stakeholders in the Python packaging community to generate consensus and
establish new specifications.

Over the past three years, the PSF has overseen work on multiple1 one-off
grants in the Python packaging ecosystem, which were successfully fulfilled
for improvements to PyPI as well as pip. While these projects have been
successful, the PSF is committed to establishing a structure through this role
to support such projects sustainably, and assessing the backlog of potentially
funded work, as well as lingering demand in the community for further
improvement.

Ultimately, this role will provide a basis for progressing initiatives across
multiple packaging projects and taking on additional funding opportunities on
a continuous basis and acting as a known point of contact for members of the
community.

Interested in the position?
---------------------------

If you are interested, please see the job post on the `Python Job
Board <https://www.python.org/jobs/5317/>`_ for the job description and
instructions to apply. The call for resumes will be open until May 18, 2021.

* * *

1: Past funded work includes: MOSS award to finish and launch ground-up
rewrite of PyPI (2018); Open Technology Fund contract to add 2FA, API keys,
translations, improved accessibility, and internationalization to PyPI (2019);
Facebook grant to implement automated checks for package uploads and PEP 548
in PyPI (2020); and MOSS award and Chan Zuckerberg Initiative grant to
overhaul user experience and dependency resolver in pip (2020).

