.. post:: 2016-04-06
   :tags: post, community, PSF, volunteers, infrastructure, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The PSF has hired an IT Manager!
================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2016/04/the-psf-has-hired-it-manager.html>`_.

We are pleased to announce that the PSF has hired a part-time Infrastructure
Manager. Please join us in welcoming Mark Mangoba!

  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjwRSZrlZrvkm-
KnF_bqlcVOJoHM8F008rgbVtyT5h4RSKfTF-Z6OTiG46RIqpWAdkXeEAmdqudPon_Jb3VfQOS7z2BWUS6Sg71K0WNQaND5Ojr3mxZOGGKMjKAzI-
zkAFwvcQ/s1600/mark-
mangoba_0.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjwRSZrlZrvkm-
KnF_bqlcVOJoHM8F008rgbVtyT5h4RSKfTF-Z6OTiG46RIqpWAdkXeEAmdqudPon_Jb3VfQOS7z2BWUS6Sg71K0WNQaND5Ojr3mxZOGGKMjKAzI-
zkAFwvcQ/s1600/mark-mangoba_0.jpg)

  

Mark has a background in IT management and has experience with non-profits.
Mark is excited to be part of the team and is ready to lead new PSF
infrastructure projects and better support the community volunteers leading
existing ones. In his own words, "I look forward to working with our
infrastructure team of volunteers to optimize, streamline processes, and to
bring enterprise level tech support to the services we provide to the Python
community".  
  
In the coming months, Mark will work on documentation for our infrastructure
setup and improvements to the PSF voting process. Later this year, he will
work on python.org improvements. It takes a while for any new employee to
learn the ropes, but Mark has not wasted any time. He has jumped right in,
getting to know our volunteers and working with the PSF. Mark expressed that
"its been an amazing experience so far working with the PSF and I am glad to
be a part of it!".

  

The PSF has visited the idea of improving Python.org usability and our voting
system before. We have made incremental improvements, but we didn't have the
resources to fully examine all of the existing issues, let alone complete all
of them. With Mark on the team, we'll be better equipped to face our current
and future challenges.

  

With our growing team, I'm confident that the PSF will continue to make a
positive impact on the Python community in 2016 and beyond. I look forward to
working with Mark and seeing all of the wonderful goals he'll help us achieve.

  

Welcome to the PSF, Mark!

  

