.. post:: 2016-07-27
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PyGotham: a Python Conference at the United Nations
===================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2016/07/pygotham-python-conference-at-united.html>`_.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhBY0AgJK6ImRqqXgBHSTxUHnDvPj8xB8-LZBviUr0JPV4gExE7zsaM61xdVDSAzEU8IfnsYdF1PxyyFuRuQOAiKXhw08QOf5yQ4j-cBpy3qDpvetKxlBFplYYYdeX3eRA4ZQ/s640/North_by_Northwest_movie_trailer_screenshot_%252813%2529.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhBY0AgJK6ImRqqXgBHSTxUHnDvPj8xB8-LZBviUr0JPV4gExE7zsaM61xdVDSAzEU8IfnsYdF1PxyyFuRuQOAiKXhw08QOf5yQ4j-cBpy3qDpvetKxlBFplYYYdeX3eRA4ZQ/s1600/North_by_Northwest_movie_trailer_screenshot_%252813%2529.jpg)  
---  
`_United Nations
Headquarters_ <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:North_by_Northwest_movie_trailer_screenshot_\(13\>`_.jpg)  
  
I've never had to take my belt off to get into a Python conference before.  
  
This is the fifth year I attended PyGotham, here in New York City. In past
years we held the conference in a standard convention center or, memorably, on
a couple boats moored in the Hudson River. But this year PyGotham gathered in
the United Nations.  
  
What first struck me about the new venue was its vigilant security, of course.
Guards in blue uniforms sent us through metal detectors and x-rayed our bags.
Once I got through security and put my belt on, I entered the UN Conference
Building. The lobby is full of inspiring posters about anti-poverty summits,
scientific committees, global peace initiatives. In the conference rooms
themselves every seat has its own microphone and an earpiece for simultaneous
translation. Sound-proof booths surround and overlook each room, with signs in
their thick glass windows saying "English", "French", "German". Along a
hallway stands old-fashioned gray communications gear. There are rows of plug
boards, analog meters, tape-to-tape reels, cathode ray tube screens surrounded
by switches, buttons, and dials.  
  
I turned my attention from the conference environment to the people there, and
I was struck by a second novel impression: demographics! I've come to expect
Python conferences to include many women and people of color, but at `PyGotham
2016 <https://2016.pygotham.org/>`_ women of color were particularly well-
represented, and there were teenage coders and even a few pre-teens.  
  
PyGotham is a production of `Big Apple Py <http://bigapplepy.org/>`_. Our spot
in the UN is the outcome of a new partnership: PyGotham has joined `Open
Camp <http://opencamps.org/about.html>`_, a giant UN-sponsored series of
technology conferences that focus on technology's humanitarian uses.  
  
I interviewed Big Apple Py's Jon Banafato, and Open Camp coordinator Forest
Mars, to learn more about why this PyGotham was so different from the past.  
  

* * *

  
PyGotham started in 2011 as a conference for the New York City Python
community. The conference has grown a lot since then. This year, we had over
500 attendees from around the world, but PyGotham still remains a tight-knit
community of New Yorkers at heart.  
  
The organizing team strives for a diverse speaker list and audience. This
year’s conference would not have been the same without the help of the Python
Software Foundation, who funded 50 diversity scholarship tickets.  
  
A half-dozen community groups helped us get tickets into the right hands: `NYC
PyLadies <http://www.meetup.com/NYC-PyLadies/>`_, `Girl Develop
It <https://www.girldevelopit.com/>`_, `Django Girls
NYC <https://djangogirls.org/nyc/>`_, `Write Speak
Code <http://www.writespeakcode.com/>`_, and `Women in Machine Learning and Data
Science <http://wimlds.org/>`_.  
  
Working with Open Camps and the United Nations this year let us make 2016 the
most affordable and largest PyGotham to date. We hope this better accomplishes
our goals of promoting open source software and making Python education more
accessible to all.  
  
— Jon Banafato  
  

* * *

  
Open Camp is a community-organized open source technology conference, which
also happens to be one of the largest open source conferences in the world.
This year (our 5th) nearly 6,000 individuals attended over the course of 10
days.  
  
Open Camps is "mission-driven": we're distinguished from other conferences by
our focus on how technology is used, its impact on the world, and its
alignment with humanitarian ideals. Rather than proscribe, however, Open Camps
provides a forum where these topics can be discussed.  
  
At the start we were on the campuses of Columbia University and NYU. For the
past three years we've been graciously hosted by the United Nations at their
world headquarters in New York. `Open Camps at the UN is a
collaboration <http://www.un.org/press/en/2016/pi2160.doc.htm>`_ of the United
Nations Open Source Innovation Initiative (Unite Open Source), the Open Camps
organizing team and dozens of open-source communities.  
  
Open Camps is dedicated to the principles of inclusiveness and diversity, and
has always been free for anyone to attend. Our 2013 theme was "Get Off the
Island"—we wanted to combat isolationism in communities of technology. Our
first year at the UN we chose the theme "Women in Technology" featuring two
keynote addresses by influential women in tech, and a panel discussion.  
  
Since the beginning, we've included the "Next Generation" initiative for youth
in technology. We work with `CSNYC <http://www.csnyc.org/>`_ and
`ScriptEd <https://www.scripted.org/>`_. Open Camp speakers have been as young
as 11 years old. The Next Gen program is also ongoing, and we have hosted
numerous hands-on workshops teaching youth how to use open source technology.  
  
Long terms goals for Open Camps include a "tech assembly": we want to bring
together thought leaders from around the globe to engage in a broader
conversation. We'll discuss consensus-driven tech, and technology transfer of
open source tools and best practices between the "technology haves" and the
technology "have nots".  
  
We care about giving back. Each year we host programs ranging from "Coding for
a Cause" to "Hacking for Humanity." Last year we had a ground-breaking event:
not just the first Hackathon at the UN, but the first 24 hour hackathon. This
year, our Unite For Humanity Hackathon drew 20 teams, again to spend 24 hours
building solutions for the UN's 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The winning
team will then work with the UN to develop their hackathon project into an
application.  
  
— Forest Mars  
  

* * *

`![Image description: man posing in front of old-fashioned gray communications
gear. There are analog meters, a tape-to-tape reel, a cathode-ray tube screen
surrounded by switches, buttons, and dials. Directly behind the man is a
plugboard with dozens of
sockets. <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhIg5iaD9F955CINkvKbZ3Tp8CzxV2vc1OY_OW2J7LLB6hFkRsT3_MRIHV0mbFRmzrFnJ17fbeLU9-zwjl_WIg1PtffkTspyz0hu87GvS1aHZDyC1YruFwibmDKGo8ANFFXhA/s400/IMG_2134.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhIg5iaD9F955CINkvKbZ3Tp8CzxV2vc1OY_OW2J7LLB6hFkRsT3_MRIHV0mbFRmzrFnJ17fbeLU9-zwjl_WIg1PtffkTspyz0hu87GvS1aHZDyC1YruFwibmDKGo8ANFFXhA/s1600/IMG_2134.jpg)  
---  
_Your correspondent, standing in front of vintage United Nations
communications gear._

