.. post:: 2016-08-11
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The Python Software Foundation is seeking a blogger!
====================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2016/08/the-python-software-foundation-is.html>`_.

_Interview prominent Pythonistas, connect with the community, expand your
circle of friends and learn about events in the Python world!_

*  
*  

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is seeking a blogger to contribute to the
PSF blog located at
`http://pyfound.blogspot.com/ <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/>`_. As a PSF blogger
you will work with the PSF Communication Officers to brainstorm blog content,
communicate activities, and provide updates on content progression. Example of
content includes PSF community service awardee profiles, details about global
Python events and PSF grants, or recent goings-on within the PSF itself. One
goal of the 2016 - 2017 PSF Board of Directors is to increase transparency
around PSF activities by curating more frequent blog content.

*  
*  

The Python Software Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation that
holds the intellectual property rights behind the Python programming language.
We also run the North American PyCon conference annually, support other Python
conferences/workshops around the world, and fund Python related development
with our grants program. To see more info on our grants program, please read:
https://www.python.org/psf/grants/.

*  
*  

*Job Description*

*\----------------------------*

  * Capacity to contribute one to two blog posts per month

  * Passionate about Python and the global Python community 

  * Independently report progress and activities to Python Software Foundation Staff and Communication Officers on a monthly basis 

  * Actively brainstorm content ideas for blog content individually as well as with Python Software Foundation Staff and Communication Officers

*  
*  

*Needed Experience*

*\----------------------------*

  * Ability to work independently and on virtual teams

  * Familiarity with Python programming

  * Experience contributing to a technical blog or website 

*  
*  

Bloggers for the Python Software Foundation receive a fixed fee per post they
produce.

  

To apply please email two to three examples of recent articles (e.g. personal
blog, contribution to professional publication) as well as a brief account of
your writing experience to `psf-blog@python.org <mailto:psf-blog@python.org>`_.
If you have questions, direct them to `psf-blog@python.org <mailto:psf-
blog@python.org>`_ as well. *UPDATE: T**he Python Software Foundation will be
accepting applications until 11:59:59pm Pacific Standard Time Thursday, August
25th, 2016.*

