.. post:: 2010-10-29
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Bug weekend Nov. 20-21
======================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2010/10/bug-weekend-nov-20-21.html>`_.

The development team of the Python interpreter (a.k.a python-dev) is
organizing a bug weekend on Saturday 20th and Sunday 21st of November.

We would like to encourage anyone who feels interested in participating to
give it a try. Contributing to Python is much less intimidating than it
sounds. You don't need to have previous experience with modifying the Python
source; in fact bug days offer a good opportunity to learn the basics by
asking questions and working on relatively simple bugs (see "how to get
prepared" below). And most core developers are actual human beings!

How it happens
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The bug week-end will happen on the #python-dev IRC channel on the Freenode
network, where several core developers routinely hang out. No physical meeting
is scheduled, but anyone is encouraged to organize one and announce it on the
official Python channels such as this one.

Participants (you!) join #python-dev and collaboratively go through the Python
issue tracker at `http://bugs.python.org <http://bugs.python.org/>`_ . From
there, you can provide patches and/or review existing patches. Also, you can
help us assess issues on any specific topic you have expertise in (the range
of topics touched in the stdlib is quite broad and it is more than likely that
the core developers' expertise is lacking in some of them).

Or, if you feel shy, you can simply watch other people work and get more conf
ident about participating yourself. Development is public and lurkers are
welcome.

What you can work on
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Our expectation is that Python 3.2 beta 1 will have been released a couple of
days before the bug week-end and, therefore, one primary goal is to polish the
3.2 branch for the following betas and the final release. There are many
issues to choose from on the bug tracker; any bug fixes or documentation
improvements will do. New features are discouraged: they can't be checked in
before the official 3.2 release.

How to get prepared
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you are a beginner with the Python codebase, you may want to read the
development guide available here (courtesy of Brian Curtin):`
http://docs.pythonsprints.com/core_development/beginners.html <http://docs.pythonsprints.com/core_development/beginners.html>`_

There's a small practical guide to bug days/week-ends on the wiki:
<http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonBugDay>

And the development FAQ holds answers to generic development questions:
<http://www.python.org/dev/faq/>

You can also do all of the above during the bug week-end, of course. Please,
don't hesitate to ask us questions on the #python-dev channel.

