.. post:: 2006-11-30
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PyCon 2007 - Fifth Annual Python Community Conference
=====================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2006/11/pycon-2007-fifth-annual-python.html>`_.

ADDISON, TX, November 30, 2006 \- PyCon 2007, the fifth annual conference of
the Python community, will take place February 23-25 at the Dallas/Addison
Marriott Quorum hotel. The keynote speakers will include Ivan Krstic, from the
One Laptop Per Child project; Adele Goldberg, a developer of Smalltalk; Robert
M. Lefkowitz, an expert on the use of open source in business; and Guido van
Rossum, the creator of Python.

PyCon annually attracts hundreds of attendees interested in the open-source
Python language, ranging from novice programmers to developers of the language
core. This year's conference will include a record sixty-four sessions,
covering the use of Python in a broad range of contexts, such as web
development, testing, and cross-language integration; case studies in
industry, science, and education; and Python implementations for the Java and
.NET platforms.

The program will also include intensive half-day tutorials, impromptu Open
Space talks, Birds-of-a-Feather topical gatherings, and the ever-popular five-
minute Lightning Talks. One new feature this year will be the Python Lab, a
collaborative, hands-on problem-solving environment. Following the conference,
many developers will stay for Sprints, extending the Python language and
Python projects through several days of intense, cooperative coding.

PyCon is organized by members of the Python community, and made possible by
the Python Software Foundation and conference sponsors.

For more information or to register, please visit the PyCon 2007 website:
<http://us.pycon.org/TX2007/>

Information for members of the press is collected at
<http://us.pycon.org/TX2007/ForPress>

Contact information

    
    
    Publicity coordinator: Catherine Devlin
    IntelliTech Systems
    catherine.devlin at gmail dot com
    937-427-8814x222
    
    
    
    Conference chair: Andrew M. Kuchling
    ASTi
    amk at amk dot ca
    703-471-2104 x120
    

Alternately, send e-mail with a phone number to psf at python dot org and
someone will call you as soon as possible.

