.. post:: 2022-11-01
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Thank You for Making PyCon US amazing, Jackie!
==============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/11/thank-you-for-making-pycon-us-amazing.html>`_.

Jackie Augustine is moving on from her role of Director of Events at the PSF.
Please join me in thanking Jackie for all of her amazing work with our
volunteers, vendors, and staff. Her energy, heart, and dedication will be
keenly missed.  
  
  
Jackie says, “PyCon US will forever be in my heart. Mostly because of all the
wonderful people I have met and come to love. The community members, the board
directors, the many volunteers, and especially the staff of the PSF have
enhanced my life tremendously. I will truly miss everyone.”  
  
  
Jackie has been working with the PSF on PyCon US for 10 years and most
recently managed our pivot to two years of remote PyCons. She also oversaw our
return to a safe and fulfilling in-person
`PyCon <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/06/pycon-us-successful-return-to-in-
person.html>`_ earlier this year. PyCon US would not be the successful and
growing event it is today without her work.  
  
  
The PSF’s Director of Infrastructure Ee Durbin shared, “For most PyCon US is a
few precious days in the spring each year. For some it is months of preparing
a presentation, organizing a summit, or volunteering their time. For Jackie it
has been a continuous and heartfelt commitment year over year to facilitate
every detailed aspect of the conference, both in-person and online, that we
cherish. The impact Jackie has had on our community via PyCon US is hard to
overstate and our gratitude should be as deep and heartfelt as the commitment
she made in her time directing the event.”  
  
  
So, what’s next for us? Our extremely capable Event Assistant, Olivia Sauls
will be stepping up into the role of Program Director and we will be `hiring a
Community Events Manager <https://www.python.org/communityeventsjob/>`_ to help
us run PyCon US. It would be lovely if you could help us by sharing the job
listing widely.

