.. post:: 2022-12-08
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Introducing a New Sliding Scale Membership
==========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/12/introducing-new-sliding-scale-membership.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) has made a sliding scale option available
for Supporting Membership, because we want to make membership more accessible
for more people and to increase the size and diversity of our voting
membership. New Supporting Members can join the PSF for as little as $25. Our
goal is to make our Membership program more accessible to Supporters who live
in a country with lower average incomes than the US or Western Europe or those
who are currently students or are currently unemployed or under-employed. We
are relying on Members to self-select their rate, so anyone who finds our
suggested $99 membership rate a financial burden can choose a Membership rate
that works for them, starting at $25.  
  
Part of our mission at the PSF is to “facilitate the growth of a
`diverse <https://www.python.org/psf/diversity/>`_ and international community
of Python programmers.” Our community `Grants
Program <https://www.python.org/psf/grants/>`_ and our `Travel
Grants <https://us.pycon.org/2023/attend/travel-grants/>`_ for PyCon US have
paved the way for a lot of growth, both internationally and amongst
populations that are otherwise under-indexed in Python specifically, and open
source generally. One area where this outreach hasn’t “trickled up” as much as
we’d like is our leadership. Supporting Members can vote for our Board of
Directors. If our roster of voting members can more accurately represent the
entire Python community, then we can more reasonably expect the make-up of the
Board to follow.  
  
There are of course many other things we could consider doing to increase the
diversity of the Python community. We `welcome your thoughts <mailto:psf-
donations@python.org>`_ on how we can continue to improve.  
  
In the meantime, our annual membership and fundraising drive is `happening
right now <https://www.python.org/psf/donations/2022-q4-drive/>`_ and we hope
that you will consider becoming a Supporting Member at $25, $99, or anything
in between (or more if you have the means.) A second task you could do to
support our membership drive is to share it on social media or with your
friends and colleagues who use Python. We prefer to rely on word of mouth,
rather than purchasing leads or haunting people with ads all over the
internet, so thanks in advance for your help!

