.. post:: 2013-03-04
   :tags: post, contributions, development, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Introducing Electronic Contributor Agreements
=============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2013/03/introducing-electronic-contributor.html>`_.

We're happy to announce the new way to file a contributor agreement: on the
web at <http://www.python.org/psf/contrib/contrib-form/>.  
  
Through the use of `Adobe's
EchoSign <https://www.echosign.adobe.com/en/home.html>`_, we got rid of the old
hand-written, print out, scan or photograph, then fax or email of your form.
It was a hassle for our contributors, and a hassle for our administrators.
Faxes fail, mail gets lost, and sometimes pictures or scans turn out poorly.
It was time to find a more user-friendly solution, and the Foundation is happy
to finally offer this electronic form.  
  
The new form is easy to fill out right on the site, guiding you through each
of the required fields such as your name, bug tracker ID, address, and initial
license. If you're signing the form on behalf of an organization, there's a
check box to specify this, and then you are asked near the bottom to state
your title in the organization. Lastly, your signature is either generated
from your typed name, or you can draw your own or upload a signature file of
your own.  
  
Once you submit the form, you'll receive an email from echosign.com to verify
the email address you entered. Once you click to confirm your address, the
form will be emailed to the PSF and will be recorded.  
  
We require all contributors to CPython to have a signed form, and we hope this
makes it easier for potential contributors to join up and help make Python
better. It's available just in time for `PyCon <https://us.pycon.org/2013/>`_
and the `CPython
sprint <https://us.pycon.org/2013/community/sprints/projects/#core-python>`_
that will be occurring March 18 through 21 in Santa Clara, California. Join us
at the sprint, sign your contributor form, and help us fix some bugs or add
some features!

