.. post:: 2013-11-19
   :tags: post, community service awards, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Congratulations to Barry Warsaw, Community Service Award Receipient
===================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2013/11/congratulations-to-barry-warsaw.html>`_.

On Friday, November 15, the board of the Foundation voted for Barry Warsaw to
receive a Community Service Award for Q3 2013. Barry's involvement in the
Python community recently reached a significant milestone, as he retired the
Python 2.6 line with its final security release
(`2.6.9 <http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.6.9/>`_). Since 2007, Barry
acted as the release manager for 2.6, an instrumental release for a number of
reasons, including working with the 3.x line to backport many features. He was
simultaneously the 3.0 release manager at that time, which saw its first
release two months after 2.6 came out.  
  
Barry's involvement in the community extends long beyond contributions to the
CPython project, into his work on the `GNU Mailman <http://list.org/>`_ project.
He earned the `2008 Antonio Pizzagati
Prize <http://www.tides.org/impact/awards-prizes/pizzigati-
prize/winners/#warsaw>`_ for Software in the Public Interest for his work on
Mailman, which has become the world's most popular mailing list software, seen
all around the web. It's rare to find a mailing list out there that isn't
managed by Mailman.  
  
He has also been a contributor to the Debian and Ubuntu projects, recently
becoming a Debian Member in June. He has spent a good bit of time on Ubuntu's
shift to Python 3, mapping out dependencies and working with upstream projects
to ensure a quality port of their codebase.  
  
When he's not jamming on Python, he's jamming on a bass guitar. Check out some
of his music `here <http://barry.warsaw.us/music.html>`_.  
  
Congratulations, and thanks for all of your hard work!

