.. post:: 2012-09-14
   :tags: matplotlib, post, distinctive service award, award, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Announcing the 2012 Distinguished Service Award - John Hunter
=============================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2012/09/announcing-2012-distinctive-service.html>`_.

  

  

The Distinguished Service Award
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Python Software Foundation voted unanimously on September 12, 2012 to
authorize the creation of a new award: the `Distinguished Service
Award <http://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-distinguished-awards>`_. The
award is offered in recognition of long-term excellence in the Python
community, and is intended to stand as the Foundation's highest honor. Whether
for contributions of code, activism, evangelism, or for other services to
Python and its global community, the Foundation seeks to honor those who have
a record of sustained and prolific giving to the Python world.

The award will not be made to a schedule, but as deserving candidates emerge.
It comes with a check for $5,000, in simple recognition of the kind of devoted
service for which the award will be presented.

Full details of the award, and a list of recipients, can be found on the
Foundation's `awards page <http://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-
distinguished-awards>`_.

The First Recipient
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The inaugural recipient of the Distinguished Service Award is John Hunter, who
passed away on August 28, 2012 after losing an all-too-brief battle with colon
cancer.

He is survived by his wife Miriam and three daughters Clara, Ava, and Rahel.
To mark his passing, the NumFOCUS Foundation has setup a memorial fund for the
care and education of his three daughters at
<http://numfocus.org/johnhunter/>.

John Hunter
^^^^^^^^^^^

There are few projects in the Python world which have enjoyed the reach,
longevity, and value that `matplotlib <http://matplotlib.org/>`_ has offered in
the 10 years since its creation. John Hunter, at the time a post-doctoral
neurobiologist at the University of Chicago, started the matplotlib library as
a way to work around downtime created by limited licensing for expensive
proprietary tools. His choice to use Python was a bold one at the time, given
Python's relatively young age, especially within the sciences. However, his
efforts paid off and he was able to create an open alternative to allow him to
continue analyzing epileptic seizure data in children without the limitations
he was experiencing with other products.

Over time, John left the academic world and entered Chicago's finance
industry, taking employment at TradeLink Securities. While there, he took his
science background and matplotlib project into the field of quantitative
analysis. In the ten years since matplotlib's creation, John brought three
daughters into the world and cared for his family all while maintaining the
number one spot on the matplotlib committer list. He became further involved
in the numeric and scientific communities, presenting at conferences and
expanding his involvement to the recently formed NumFOCUS Foundation, at which
he was a founding board member.

John's creation and contribution of matplotlib to not just the Python
community, but to the science and mathematics communities, is truly an effort
that will live on and continue to influence these communities and more for
many years to come. Whether you found Python through matplotlib or matplotlib
through Python, John Hunter's efforts have left a lasting mark on so many
people in so many places.

* * *

In addition to the Distinguished Service Award, the Foundation will be
contributing $3500 to a project which is currently in the works, the John
Hunter Technical Fellowship. More details on this will follow.

