.. post:: 2019-09-30
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Grants Awarded for Python in Education
======================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/09/grants-awarded-for-python-in-education.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation has been asked about Python in education quite
a bit recently. People have asked, “Is there an official curriculum we can
use?”, “Are there online resources?”, “Are there efforts happening to improve
Python on mobile?”, and so on.  
  
9 years ago we instituted the Education Summit at PyCon US where educators as
well as students work together on initiatives and obstacles. Earlier this year
we decided we needed to do more. In November of 2018, the PSF created the
Python in Education Board Committee and it was tasked with finding initiatives
to fund to help improve the presence of Python in education.  
  
In January of this year, the Python in Education Board Committee launched a
“request for ideas” phase taking suggestions from the community on what we
should focus our funding on. After the RFI period, we came up with 3 areas of
education we wanted to focus on and asked to receive grant proposals on the
following: resources (curriculums, evaluations, studies, multidisciplinary
projects), localization (primarily translations), and mobile (development on
mobile devices).  
  
We are happy to publish more details on the grants the PSF approved from this
initiative!  
  




Beeware
~~~~~~~

The BeeWare Project wants to make it possible for all Python developers to
write native apps for desktop and mobile platforms. Most desktop operating
systems and iOS are supported already, but Android needs attention. Since
Android users outnumber other mobile OS users worldwide by over 3 to 1, we
determined it is important to fund this project. Beeware was awarded a $50,000
grant to help improve Python on Android. Phase one will be starting soon with
this set of goals:  
  

  1. A port of the CPython runtime to Android, delivered as a binary library ready to install into an Android project.
  2. A JNI-based library for bridging between the Android runtime and the CPython runtime.
  3. A template for a Gradle project that can be used to deploy Python code on Android devices. 

  
Beeware announced that they are looking for contractors to help with the work.
Check out `their blog post <https://beeware.org/news/buzz/beeware-project-
awarded-a-psf-education-grant/>`_ for more information.  
  

Python in Education Website
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Educational resources are in demand.  The PSF awarded a grant of $12,000 USD
to Meg Ray, to work on creating a Python in Education website where we can
curate educational information from all over the world. Meg will begin by
collecting resources and after auditing the shared information, she will work
on organizing it on an official PSF webpage. This work will begin in October
of 2019 so please keep an eye out for updates via tweets and blogs!  
  

Friendly-tracebacks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Lastly is a project called friendly-tracebacks. This project is not in need of
financial support but is asking the PSF to help publicize it.  Friendly-
traceback aims to provide simplified tracebacks translated into as many
languages as possible. The project maintainer is looking for volunteers to
help with tasks such as documenting possible SyntaxError use cases and
documenting exceptions that haven't already been covered. Read more `on their
blog <http://bit.ly/tracebacks>`_ for the full call to action from the
maintainer.  
  
We hope to continue this initiative yearly! Companies that are passionate
about supporting Python in Education should get in touch; we can't continue
our work without your support!  As a non-profit organization, the PSF depends
on sponsorships and donations to support the Python community.  
  
Donate to the PSF: <https://www.python.org/psf/donations/>  
Sponsor the PSF: <https://www.python.org/psf/sponsorship/>

