.. post:: 2007-10-25
   :tags: post, volunteer, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Help the PSF Help Python
========================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2007/10/help-psf-help-python.html>`_.

The uninitiated tend to view the Python Software Foundation (PSF) as some sort
of shadowy legal entity that mysteriously rules the Python community. In fact,
the PSF has no ambition to "manage" the community (this is open source!) and
we certainly don't just work on legal things. The important message that gets
lost in this misconception is:

The PSF is Here to Help!

If you're a volunteer working on some aspect of the Python community --
whether developing code, organizing a conference, supporting end users, or
running servers and other infrastructure -- please keep in mind that the PSF
may be able to help with problems that you run into.

In particular, we're interested in areas where volunteers are overwhelmed, or
where some funding could help to bootstrap or enable a subsequently self-
sustaining resource for the community. We've supported efforts as diverse as
the new bug tracker, Python conferences around the world, and the python.org
website redesign.

We can't always be as proactive as we'd like, so may not know you need our
help. Tell us!

The other side of the message, equally important, is:

Python Needs Your Help!

Alas, the PSF isn't an interplanetary enterprise with a hundred thousand
employees, so it's mostly volunteers that run the Python community. Indeed it
does take significant effort to keep things going. Postmaster, website
maintainer, help list responder, and job board updater are all volunteer posts
that come to mind immediately. There are many other areas that can use the
help of active volunteers.

Such tasks are often an excellent training ground, and a good way to get your
feet wet participating in (and meeting) the Python community. For experienced
hands that already know everything and everybody, it's a great way to give
back to Python, and make a valuable difference in the Python universe.

Please consider helping out. You'll earn the satisfaction of sitting 'round
the bar at PyCon shooting the breeze over a Pan-Galactic Gargle Blaster or
three. Guaranteed!

So, What Do I Do Now?

If you have a suggestion, feel free to add a comment to this entry. To help
out, please contact us at `psf@python.org <mailto:psf%40python.org>`_ or join
our `volunteer pool <http://mail.python.org/mailman/listinfo/psf-volunteers>`_
email list.

Oh, and please pass the word on to others!

Thanks!

