.. post:: 2018-01-31
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The Python Software Foundation is looking for bloggers!
=======================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/01/the-python-software-foundation-is.html>`_.

_Interview prominent Pythonistas, connect with the community, expand your
circle of friends and learn about events in the Python world!_  
_  
_  
The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is looking to add bloggers for the PSF
blog located at <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/>. As a PSF blogger you will work
with the PSF Communication Officers to brainstorm blog content, communicate
activities, and provide updates on content progression. Example of content
includes PSF community service awardee profiles, details about global Python
events and PSF grants, or recent goings-on within the PSF itself. One goal of
the 2017 - 2018 PSF Board of Directors is to increase transparency around PSF
activities by curating more frequent blog content.  
  
The Python Software Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation that
holds the intellectual property rights behind the Python programming language.
We also run the North American PyCon conference annually, support other Python
conferences/workshops around the world, and fund Python related development
with our grants program. To see more info on our grants program, please read:
<https://www.python.org/psf/grants/>.  
  
*  
* *Job Description*  

* * *

  * Capacity to contribute one to two blog posts per month
  * Passionate about Python and the global Python community
  * Independently report progress and activities to Python Software Foundation Staff and Communication Officers on a monthly basis
  * Actively brainstorm content ideas for blog content individually as well as with Python Software Foundation Staff and Communication Officers

  
*Needed Experience*  

* * *

  * Ability to work independently and on virtual teams
  * Familiarity with Python programming
  * Experience contributing to a technical blog or website in English
  * Professional proficiency in English

  
Bloggers for the Python Software Foundation receive a fixed fee per post they
write.  
  
To apply please email two to three examples of recent articles (e.g. personal
blog, contribution to professional publication) written in English as well as
a brief description of your writing experience to psf-blog-apply@python.org.
Please include in the email subject "PSF Blogger Application - (Your Name)".
If you have questions, direct them to psf-blog-apply@python.org as well. *The
Python Software Foundation will be accepting applications until 11:59:59pm
Pacific Standard Time Thursday, March 1, 2018.*

