.. post:: 2018-06-28
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Dr. Russell Keith-Magee, the Python Warrior: Community Service Award Q4 2017 Recipient
======================================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/06/dr-russell-keith-magee-python-warrior.html>`_.

`Dr. Russell Keith-Magee <https://twitter.com/freakboy3742>`_ known name in the
Python community having developed with Python since the late 1990s starting
with Python version 1.5.  
  
Russell started his career coding with Perl but was confused with it’s design
philosophy of TMTOWTDI ("There’s More Than One Way To Do It”). This ultimately
led Russell to Python. With its minimal use of symbols in it’s syntax -
preferring keywords instead - and mandated indentation, Python was “a breath
of fresh air”. Russell recalls, “I found myself wanting to use Python for more
and more as time went by”. Contrasting Perl’s TMTOWTDI philosophy to Python’s
“there should be one - and preferably only one - obvious way to do it”
philosophy was a much welcomed change  
  
Russell was elated to discover Python’s broad range of use cases. As he
describes, Python “is used for systems integration, to run websites, to
statistical data analysis, to predict astronomical phenomena, it's used for
educating people who are just learning to program, and it's used by
experienced programmers for serious heavy lifting". Such breadth of usage
gives Python its most incredible aspect -- a diverse user community. “We
should always remember that we are a community. Communities depend on people
being involved, and giving back when they can.”  

  
  

Gallant Sir Russell, The Victorious Knight
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  
Like Russell, we at the Python Software Foundation share the love for our
Python community. We are delighted have such selfless and community minded
Pythonistas in our ranks. Therefore the Python Software Foundation is honored
to present the 4th Quarter Community Service Award for 2017 to Dr. Russell
Keith-Magee:  

> _RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the Q4 2017 Community
> Service Award to Russell Keith-Magee for his contributions to Django, for
> his work on the BeeWare project, and for being an active international
> speaker at PyCons._

Russell’s adventures with `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  
Russell has been a core developer on the Django project since January 2006.
Additionally, Russell has been a mentor in the Google Summer of Code for both
the Django and BeeWare Projects since 2008.  
  
Russell became a professional Python programmer just when the concept of web
frameworks was emerging. He explains, “coming from a desktop UI background, I
didn’t understand the fundamental shift that web programming required, or how
these frameworks mapped onto those requirements”. When Russell discovered
Django, however, this technology just clicked. Within a short period of time
he had conjured up a working website. “But more importantly, Django allowed me
to understand why the web worked the way it does”.  
  
These were the early days of Django development and Russell rolled up the
sleeves to start helping the nascent project. At first he, “dug into a couple
of small issues, then some bigger ones - and before long, I’d been offered
commit access.”

  
  

`BeeWare <https://pybee.org/>`_: The IDEs of Python
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  
Russell is also the founder of the BeeWare Project - a project developing
tools and libraries for cross-platform native user interfaces in Python. One
of the key contributions of this work is expanding the availability of Python
onto mobile and browser platforms.  
  
In his quest to build a rich, graphical debugger for Python, Russell found he
needed a cross-platform, Python-enabled widget toolkit. It was then that he
had a stroke of inspiration, “Why not have one code base but multiple apps?”
The idea was to, “support Python natively on iOS and Android, and, at the same
time, build a cross-platform UI toolkit that was Python-native.”  
  
Five years into the BeeWare Project, Russell, and his fellow BeeWare apiarists
were focusing on getting the BeeWare tools to the point where they would be a
viable option for user interface development.  
  
BeeWare is now a “spare time” project for Russell. He wishes to work on it
full time and, so is looking for means ways of financial support. “It’s
difficult to make a business case for something that is (a) Open Source, and
(b) not yet ready for commercial usage.” In his words, “this highlights two
existential threats for Python.”  
  
The first of these threats is the growth of mobile and browser development .
This “will have a profound impact on the viability of Python as a language.”
He rejects the claim that JavaScript is a better language , but admits it has
a key advantage: “it’s available in the browser, the most important new
platform of the last 20 years”. Russell recommends that “Python should focus
more on finding ways to target these new and emerging platforms and plan for
where our industry is moving”.  
  
The second threat to Python is the threat he sees to , the Python ecosystem -
and the broader Open Source ecosystem. Open Source supports the existence of
thousands of companies but the development and maintenance of the Python and
other open source tools, critical to their existence, is massively*
underfunded. For instance, PyPI is a classic example of this second sort of
problem: it has active commercial usage but limited support from commercial
users. This threat will continue to exist in the “absence of ongoing source of
funding”.

  

Russell’s Advice for Beginner Pythonistas
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  
Russell’s numerous contributions to the Python community reflect his core
belief in service to the bigger project. For beginning Pythonistas, Russell
advices to give back to the community.  
  
“As someone coming into the community, you may not think you have a lot to
offer, but you do “.  
  
He thinks there are many “activities around the language like user groups,
meetups and conferences, that need people to help organize.” These are as
essential as coding, for the development of a language, language community. So
no specific skill is required to jump in, so come one, come all.  
  
`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEi9VH1n9a358SL-6aL49i8g-q8jK2eUe9bea6M0ucQpCv6p3r8b_vmyRyDEzTz7Kgt1_BllFsNkH7dLEWSGpXDxQvfFku0piJ5kTGcs0MVlzNQx8J32EkmfSNVL8wstThdqXA/s320/33997838552_239ff549ae_z.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEi9VH1n9a358SL-6aL49i8g-q8jK2eUe9bea6M0ucQpCv6p3r8b_vmyRyDEzTz7Kgt1_BllFsNkH7dLEWSGpXDxQvfFku0piJ5kTGcs0MVlzNQx8J32EkmfSNVL8wstThdqXA/s1600/33997838552_239ff549ae_z.jpg)  
---  
Dr. Russell Keith-Magee, `DjangoCon
2017 <https://www.flickr.com/photos/140681500@N07/33997838552/in/album-72157679637516153/>`_  
  
These words are an inspiration to us all no matter if we’re beginners or
experienced Pythonistas. In short, thank you Russell for your years of service
and contributions to the Python community and for those yet to come.

