.. post:: 2016-10-24
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Power Of "We": PyCon CZ Keynote Speaker Ana Balica
==================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2016/10/power-of-we-ana-balica.html>`_.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiDYeBiNwN6vDwRpGTqda6T4H9bpLJLX2k_qPW54mFvoGp7ypssX7j3xA6t5S7Lacxyb8diTTALxX7mLGoKrxLFUjL4gZo1KEM3O8NgVXUcfFzVHr-6yJT5fhBSFh_2WoCSTw/s1600/ana-
balica.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiDYeBiNwN6vDwRpGTqda6T4H9bpLJLX2k_qPW54mFvoGp7ypssX7j3xA6t5S7Lacxyb8diTTALxX7mLGoKrxLFUjL4gZo1KEM3O8NgVXUcfFzVHr-6yJT5fhBSFh_2WoCSTw/s1600/ana-
balica.jpg)

  

Next week Ana Balica will give her first keynote, but she isn't nervous. At
least, not yet. "I definitely will be before going on stage," she says.
"That’s a natural response; you can’t help it."  
  
Balica is a Django Developer at Potato, a web agency in London. Although she
is only two years out of university, she's making a name for herself as a
programmer, community leader, and conference speaker. This month at `PyCon CZ
in Brno, Czech Republic <https://cz.pycon.org/2016/>`_, she presents "Humanizing
Among Coders," a talk that describes five aspects of effective communication.
"I hope it will get people talking about how they communicate, and believing
they can make a difference by being empathetic."  
  
Python and Ana Balica first met while she was studying software engineering at
the Technical University of Moldova. Although the school focuses on C and C++,
she tried out Python as a sort of snack on the side, and got hooked. After she
graduated she spent her "gap year" enjoying two adventures at once. The first
adventure was traveling Asia and Europe. Since she felt free of any
responsibility, she went on a second adventure concurrently, expanding her
skills with the "Learn IT Girl" mentorship program online. Her project for
`Learn IT Girl <https://www.learnitgirl.com/>`_ was an alphabet game for
children that ran on Android phones. She built the first prototype with Kivy
so she could write more Python.  







A Shared Network for Women in Computing
---------------------------------------

  
Balica was a Google Summer of Code participant twice as a student and once as
a mentor. Her project for GSoC was to create a new online platform for
Systers. Systers is a community of over 3,000 women in tech, the largest such
group in the world. Anita Borg founded Systers in 1987 as an email list for
women in “systems”, but it has grown and diversified into a dozen subgroups
such as Latinas in Computing, Black Women in Computing, and many others. In
2014 Balica began building a `Systers
Portal <https://github.com/systers/portal/>`_ with Python and Django to give all
these members and subgroups a unified platform to share news.  
  
During her gap year, Balica continued to hack on the portal. "While I was
traveling I had plenty of free time, so I was constantly doing something,
improving things, adding new features." She returned to GSoC the following
summer to mentor students who joined the project. Systers leader Rose Robinson
was the portal's guiding visionary; she says Balica's coding ability is
exceptional, and her leadership was crucial to the project's success. "When
teams are in four different time zones, challenges are heightened, but Ana was
never phased."  







The Launch of a Speaking Career
-------------------------------

  
Balica's first conference talk was at DjangoCon Europe, in Wales in June 2015.
At first, she didn't intend to speak at the conference. She was filling out
the registration form when she noticed the offer of `free mentorship for new
speakers <http://2015.djangocon.eu/proposals/speaker-mentors/>`_. She could get
help inventing a topic or structuring her talk. The DjangoCon organizers wrote
on the site, "We don’t want to be proud because we had a lot of superstar
speakers at our conference. We want to be proud because we were the conference
where you began your superstar speaking career."  
  
`Ola Sitarska <https://twitter.com/olasitarska>`_ was Balica's mentor for her
proposal. Sitarska says, "I was impressed with the level of detail she went
into, and only advised about what the organizers might be looking for, as she
didn't need much help!" Balica says about Sitarska, "I wrote her a couple of
paragraphs and her response was three times longer, with a lot of
encouragement a lot of little tips." Balica's `talk on Django
mixins <http://reinout.vanrees.org/weblog/2015/06/03/10-mixins.html>`_ was
accepted and she had a blast presenting it to the audience.  
  
Ever since that talk, Balica's speaking career has been accelerating. She
attributes it to a snowball effect; she'd never intended to give so many
talks. PSF director Anna Ossowski saw her speak at DjangoCon the following
year, about testing with mocks. "It was excellent to see her on stage. She had
a Shakespeare theme and it was more like an acting performance than giving a
talk."  







Code and Compassion
-------------------

  
At PyCon CZ next week, Balica will give her first keynote, "Humanizing Among
Coders," about making teams welcoming and productive for everyone. She'll
offer five methods to improve our interactions, each illustrated with a story.  
  
Her talk begins with beginners. How do we make them comfortable and mentor
them? "Being a good mentor takes energy and it’s very, very complicated," she
says, "and sometimes open source is not even the safest playground for
beginners."  
  
When we join a company or a large project, inevitably we confront a challenge
that school did not prepare us for: legacy code. Balica says, "I want to talk
about how people throw around criticism like, 'Oh, Mark wrote that. That was
horrible.'" Blaming past coders is easy, and it excuses us from making the
effort to understand why they made the choices they did. If we resist that
temptation, we gain the power to understand the past and build a better
future.  
  
According to Balica, direct communication is the best way to build a culture
of trust. "Being passive-aggressive is terrible," she says. In her keynote
she'll illustrate direct communication with a parable, about a veteran coder
named Mărioara reviewing a patch from a new contributor, Özlem. (Balica
favors Eastern European names for the people in her parables.) When the
veteran Mărioara sees flaws in the novice Özlem's patch, she fixes them
herself before merging it, rather than telling Özlem what must be improved.
Özlem is discouraged. She worries she isn't contributing to the project.  
  
It would be better, in Balica's view, if Mărioara asked Özlem why she made
the choices she did, and told her frankly how she needs to amend her code.
Özlem is still in charge of her patch, in this scenario, and she gains
insights about her craft that will ultimately make her a master engineer.  
  
The final insight Ana Balica will share is the power of the word "we." Whether
discussing a bug, an outage, a great new feature, or a punctual release, she
advises us to attribute it to the team. "Simply use the 'we' pronoun. Slight
difference, but it works."  
  
By her friends' and colleagues' accounts, Balica herself is a role model for
humanizing coding. Ola Sitarska works with her now at Potato in London. She
says, "Ana is so friendly the room starts to shine whenever she enters it. She
leaves people lovely handwritten notes on their desks." Anna Ossowski adds,
"When I see her at a conference, she always comes right up to give me a hug
and ask how I’m doing."  
  
It might sound like Balica has empathetic coding all figured out, but her
keynote won't offer pat answers. "I don't want just to give beautiful quotes
on slides," she says. "I'm making the audience think deeper and come to their
own conclusions."  
  

* * *

  
Learn more about Ana Balica:  

  * `Ana Balica's Blog <https://ana-balica.github.io/>`_
  * `Your Django Story: Meet Ana Balica <http://blog.djangogirls.org/post/124569551358/your-django-story-meet-ana-balica>`_

