.. post:: 2016-06-04
   :tags: conferences, post, community, Cuba, Caribbean, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Unconference Day at CubaConf
============================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2016/06/unconference-day-at-cubaconf.html>`_.

_Note: This is the third post on my trip in April to Havana, Cuba to attend
the International Open Software
Convention,`CubaConf <https://www.cubaconf.org/espa%C3%B1ol/>`_._

The second day of CubaConf, structured as an
"`unconference <https://www.cubaconf.org/schedule/day-2-unconference/>`_," was
equally as lively as the first. In an unconference, the audience actively
participates by proposing topics and then voting on which ones will be
presented. This was especially effective as a way of conforming to the
conference’s purpose to explore ways in which open software can be most
effectively used in poorer nations, like Cuba, and how it can contribute to
development. I was impressed by the number of audience members who came
prepared to give a talk and who lined up at the front of the room to pitch
their ideas. The suggestions were recorded on a white board, and at the end of
the session we voted for the agenda.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhrl9HGtgA4DsNYWe3Flk4f-p6KKTBCS1TqxhyPUVvQsao_5arV0dbALYlRiAMBHXogZBUiMCOFvXUEbyYTqVZLbzLTk5j_tC3RcpyttMHregKlSrotJl-400D1QumigYjnHf0/s400/Unconference.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhrl9HGtgA4DsNYWe3Flk4f-p6KKTBCS1TqxhyPUVvQsao_5arV0dbALYlRiAMBHXogZBUiMCOFvXUEbyYTqVZLbzLTk5j_tC3RcpyttMHregKlSrotJl-400D1QumigYjnHf0/s1600/Unconference.jpg)  
---  
Proposed unconference topics  
  
Before moving on to the unconference talks, we heard an already scheduled
keynote. `Etiene Dalcol <https://www.cubaconf.org/2016/01/05/second-keynote-
speaker-etiene-dalcol-will-talk-about-growing-through-free-software-and-lua/>`_,
a Brazilian software engineer, told us of her experiences and observations
within the tech scene in Brazil.

Early on in her career, Dalcol created a web framework,
`Sailor <http://sailorproject.org/>`_, in ten days. She said that although it
was "lousy," people began to contribute and to request more features,
indicating their thirst for local grown tech. Sailor is now quite improved and
popular, and will be participating for its second time in `Google’s Summer of
Code <https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/>`_.

Dalcol then talked about her experiences working on the programming language,
`Lua <https://www.lua.org/about.html>`_. She used the history of Lua to
illustrate what she sees as a hindrance to tech development in Latin America.
Lua, created in 1993 in Brazil, was never marketed in Brazil. In fact, it
wasn’t until 2015 that the first Portuguese language book on Lua was
published. According to Dalcol, this type of suppression of local efforts
contributes to a belief, prevalent even among Brazilian engineers, that
Silicon Valley tech is superior.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgz8bTAVMZX4Gk-
XxX3XjeoJh3EPe48vMxQdpWg9kKJp_ugcqHAJ9tkF-3iyjNm985rEYBfXwr-
VYyoyORelitIifTVk2-2z0cLGPOOxsPJGQnFrIjC1dFjsRx4bILDOkl3nd8/s200/EtieneDalcol.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgz8bTAVMZX4Gk-
XxX3XjeoJh3EPe48vMxQdpWg9kKJp_ugcqHAJ9tkF-3iyjNm985rEYBfXwr-
VYyoyORelitIifTVk2-2z0cLGPOOxsPJGQnFrIjC1dFjsRx4bILDOkl3nd8/s1600/EtieneDalcol.jpg)  
---  
Etiene Dalcol  
  
To combat this situation, her advice for Latin American developers is to stay
true to their own unique perspectives and needs; to develop software that will
solve local problems and to offer products that reflect their own cultures–to
do what can’t be done anywhere else. In fact, according to Dalcol, this
approach will produce software that will in turn be of benefit to other
cultures. She cited advice she had found useful as a musician--don't play
Chopin to Europeans; rather offer them what you know but they don't.

Dalcol also spoke of her experiences as a woman in tech, a theme that was
addressed head-on later in the conference in its final keynote on women in
open source (more on this later).

Dalcol’s advice was clearly reflected in many of the afternoon’s unconference
talks. We heard from participants about projects that were actively benefiting
their communities.

One such talk, by a developer from Costa Rica, was about the use of `Open
Street Map <https://www.openstreetmap.org/about>`_. OSM allows collaborators to
create interactive maps geared to specific purposes. Examples included
Ecuador’s rapid mapping of areas of damage caused by the devastating
earthquake that had just happened April 26. By the following Sunday,  just
five days after the quake, nine cities had been completely mapped, providing
crucial information for emergency responders, survivors, and reconstruction
workers.

Other OSM projects discussed included a public transport map in Nicaragua and
a map of  humanitarian services in Costa Rica. There have even been open
street mapping parties in Indonesia to develop useful maps. The speaker
invited participants to join his open source mapping workshop to be held the
next day.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgXxlhbnGgIBtg70RTApChyphenhyphenWdH_uo3Z1cCFLzsSht40ujJY5DnjrmCc2mgsGia4HBfb3pEFe0IlZg2AbQV3hxIiactdqBNTPWrj0FAoDShFQJki-
ejmlsPuds4849tqiR7tDw8/s400/CubaOpenStreet.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgXxlhbnGgIBtg70RTApChyphenhyphenWdH_uo3Z1cCFLzsSht40ujJY5DnjrmCc2mgsGia4HBfb3pEFe0IlZg2AbQV3hxIiactdqBNTPWrj0FAoDShFQJki-
ejmlsPuds4849tqiR7tDw8/s1600/CubaOpenStreet.jpg)  
---  
Open Street Mappers  
  
Another day two talk, by `Tony Wasserman <https://www.cmu.edu/silicon-
valley/faculty-staff/wasserman-tony.html>`_ on evaluating technology for
business needs was well-received by many who had entrepreneurial intent and
appreciated a run-down of the factors that lead businesses to adopt some
software products over others.

At day’s end, we gathered in the main room for Lightning Talks and
announcements. It was clear that the day had generated a great deal of
excitement that would carry over to the next day’s sprints and to projects
that would continue beyond the conference.

  

_I would love to hear from readers. Please send feedback, comments, or blog
ideas to me at  `msushi@gnosis.cx <mailto:msushi@gnosis.cx>`_._

  

