.. post:: 2013-03-18
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Python Software Foundation Reaches Settlement, Ends Trademark Dispute
=====================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2013/03/python-software-foundation-reaches.html>`_.

*_via`Marketwire <http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/-1769149.htm>`__*  
*  
**The` Python Software Foundation <http://www.python.org/psf>`_ has reached a
settlement in its recent trademark dispute with PO Box Hosting Limited trading
as Veber in Europe. The issue centered around Veber's use of the Python name
for their cloud hosting services and their application for a figurative
trademark incorporating the word "Python". While the Foundation retains the
trademark for Python within the United States, it did not have a filing within
the European Union. According to the terms of the settlement, Veber has
withdrawn its trademark filing and has agreed to support the Python Software
Foundation's use of the term.  
  
The amicable agreement reached between the two sides will result in a
rebranding of Veber's Python cloud server and backup services, which continue
to be available at `http://www.veber.co.uk <http://www.veber.co.uk/>`_. Veber
will rebrand the Python services later under a yet to be determined name.  
  
"We are happy to come to an agreement with Veber," said Van Lindberg, chairman
of the Python Software Foundation. "What the PSF wants most is to support the
global community of Python developers. To Veber's credit, they were willing to
recognize the Python brand without protracted negotiations. We are grateful
for Veber's support and we wish them luck in their business."  
  
Tim Poultney, Managing Director of PO Box Hosting and Veber, said, "Veber are
pleased to have reached a speedy and amicable agreement with the Python
Software Foundation. The use of the Python name for our cloud server and
backup business has ceased with the services now available in Europe from
Veber. This agreement will remove potential confusion between the Python
software language and our cloud services business."  
  
The Foundation thanks the Python community for their immense outpouring of
support throughout the dispute, both financially and through the letter
writing campaign undertaken by organizations across European Union member
states.*

