.. post:: 2015-01-23
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

2014 Year in Review, Part 2
===========================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/01/2014-year-in-review-part-2.html>`_.

Today's post wraps up our brief review of 2014, with a summary of both
technical and community developments.

On the technical side, the Python language grew with the releases of _Python
2.7.9_ , _3.3.5_ , _3.4_ , and, in August, _3.4.1_. Major new features of the
_3.4_  series, compared to _3.3_  include "hundreds of small improvements and
bug fixes." Additionally, _Python 3.4.1_  has many more advantages. "One
notable change: the version of OpenSSL bundled with the Windows installer no
longer has the "HeartBleed" vulnerability." See
`python.org <https://www.python.org/>`_ for more detailed information and to
download any of these latest versions (as well as a _Python 3_  compatible
version of _PyPy_).

The PSF also saw a culmination of a lot of hard work in the release of our new
website, _pydotorg_. This site serves as a main repository of all crucial
information about the Python language (downloads of all versions, tutorials,
documentation, new releases, ongoing developments, ways to contribute), the
PSF (what we are, what we do, bylaws, membership info, meeting minutes and
resolutions), community resources (Python Wiki, the IRC, the diversity policy,
mailing list, merchandise, projects, and events). Visit the website at
`python.org <https://www.python.org/>`_ to see how it should be your first stop
for anything Python related and to learn how you can contribute to its upkeep.

One of the PSF's favorite activities is to honor the contributions of its
members. The _2014 Community Service Awards_  went to Pythonistas whose work,
from organizing the largest annual PyCon, to teaching future Python users, to
developing important modules and libraries that enhance the usefulness of
Python, benefited so many of us. Congratulations to the following recipients:

Diana Clarke “for her work with the Canadian Python community, her organizing
efforts for PyCon CA and PyCon US over the past several years, and her
mentorship of many others in the community;”

R. David Murray “for his work as a core committer and as a long-time mentor of
new contributors;”

Barbara Shaurette and Katie Cunningham "in recognition of their work to create
and run their Young Coders classes, along with freely distributing their
teaching materials;"

Christophe Gohke, of the University of California, Irvine; and Armin Ronacher,
founding member of the _Pocoo_  team; for their technical contributions to
Python.

_PyCon 2014_  in April was the largest ever, and the first held outside the
U.S. The beautiful and accommodating _Palais de Congres_  in Montreal allowed
for an incredibly smooth, comfortable, and well-organized week (in addition,
of course, to the efforts of Diana Clarke and numerous volunteers). There were
over 2,500 attendees, 128 sponsors, and 95 talks (selected from over 300
submissions) over 5 simultaneously-running tracks. In addition to the usual
tutorials, lightening talks, and sprints, the conference offered first-time
childcare, a service that enabled huge participation in a Young-Coders' class,
as well as a hectic and productive Education Track, and a lot of youthful
energy and enthusiasm. The city of Montreal itself provided for a "sixth
track," _Explore Montreal_ , allowing attendees to tour Old Montreal," visit
museums, and climb "Mount Royal." If you missed last year's PyCon, it's not
too late to register for `PyCon 2015 <https://us.pycon.org/2015/registration/>`_
to visit this fabulous city and attend an amazing conference.

Other activities performed by the PSF in 2014 included developing a new
marketing `brochure <http://brochure.getpython.info/>`_, choosing Portland, OR
as the site for _PyCon 2016_  and _2017,_  updating the bylaws regarding
memberships, quorums, and the grants procedure, adopting a privacy policy, and
keeping up with trademark registrations for the term _PyCon_.  
  
  
Addendum 1/25/15  

  

It has come to my attention that the number of submissions for talks at PyCon
2014 was actually well over 600, rather than merely "over 300" as I stated
above. My apologies, although the point I was trying to make was that the
quality of talks presented, as well as their usefulness and interest to the
diverse community, were of the highest order. That point is even more
supported given the larger number.

  

And similarly, submissions for PyCon 2015 are around 650 for the 95 slots
available. What a dazzlingly productive and vital community!

