.. post:: 2015-05-01
   :tags: open source, post, non-profit, Working Group, scipy, PSF, NumFocus, Science, Scientific Computing, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PSF/NumFOCUS joint Working Group on Scientific Python
=====================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/05/psfnumfocus-joint-working-group-on.html>`_.

For the first time ever, the PSF has joined forces with another open source
organization, `NumFOCUS <http://numfocus.org/>`_, to create a collaborative
working group to make decisions on allocating grants or sponsorships for
Scientific Python projects, conferences, etc.

`NumFOCUS <http://numfocus.org/>`_, based in Austin Texas, has been promoting
and funding open source computing resources for scientific research since
2012. Their core projects include _AstroPi_ , _Data Carpentry_ , _IPython_ ,
_Julia_ , _SimPy_ , _NumPy_ , and _SciPy_ , _Matplotlib_ , _Cython_ ,
_PyTables_ , and more.

This new joint working group was spearheaded by PSF Director David Mertz, who
will co-chair along with mathematician and Python evangelist Tim Couper.

The PSF has recently pledged initial annual support in the amount of of
US$25,000, and agreed to match any amount NumFOCUS contributes beyond $25,000,
up to $50,000 contributed by the PSF, during the PSF Board meeting on 4/28/15
(for combined funding up to $100,000).

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhSp0wHe8OjTiv_Qqom0_RkCkhQoXj_LEPyYWKGZdKEKSpjClxaNpQFLPkXjHssMEeeEmEzeHhWT5yfZtYyMkZz22oTVnlQZ3znYhnSordtCrbv8pJWNZana-
WOXS6ddudjIEw/s1600/drum.gif>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhSp0wHe8OjTiv_Qqom0_RkCkhQoXj_LEPyYWKGZdKEKSpjClxaNpQFLPkXjHssMEeeEmEzeHhWT5yfZtYyMkZz22oTVnlQZ3znYhnSordtCrbv8pJWNZana-
WOXS6ddudjIEw/s1600/drum.gif)

Image credit: engineering.dartmouth.edu

In forming the Working Group, David reached out via the PSF members' list to
call for volunteers. As he wrote,

> This note is a call for volunteers … The work needed … [is] keeping in mind
> a finite budget, and evaluating and discussing requests that come in for
> grants or sponsorship relative to this budget. In the best case, people
> connected to scientific communities will also do some outreach to let groups
> know that funds are potentially available, but it’s also necessary just to
> weigh requests that come to us independently.

The call for volunteers led to an extremely impressive group representing a
range of scientific expertise and interests. The PSF is confident in the
group’s ability to make capable evaluations of grant requests that will ensure
a judicious use of limited funds.

Here are the WG members' biographies:

David Mertz: Ph.D. in Political Philosophy, gone astray into computer theory,
with a stint in computational biochemistry. He has been a Fellow of the PSF
since 2008, and a Director since 2009. He is author of _Text Processing in
Python_  (Addison Wesley) and the series _Charming Python_  (IBM
developerWorks).

Tim Couper: Oxford D.Phil. in Mathematics. Python evangelist and consultant
for 16 years, now based in Scotland. Extensive python experience with
organisations of all sizes from startups to large retail, pharmaceuticals &
finance (banking & hedge funds).

Anthony Scopatz: Computational Physicist and avid Python developer since 2002
and PSF Fellow since 2013. He is coauthor of _Effective Computation in
Physics_  (O'Reilly). He will be joining the University of South Carolina as a
tenure-track faculty member in Mechanical Engineering in August 2015.

Stéfan van der Walt: Assistant Researcher at the Berkeley Institute for Data
Science and a senior lecturer in applied mathematics at Stellenbosch
University, South Africa. He has been an active member of the scientific
Python community since 2006, and frequently teaches Python at workshops and
conferences. He is the founder of scikit-image and a contributor to numpy,
scipy and dipy.

Travis Oliphant: Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering from Mayo Clinic; professor
of Electrical and Computer Engineering at BYU 2001 to 2007 with research in
inverse problems and biomedical imaging; creator of SciPy, author of NumPy;
founder of Numba, PyData, NumFOCUS, and Continuum Analytics. Currently CEO of
Continuum.

Leah Silen: Executive Director of NumFOCUS, Leah has been involved daily in
the support of the Python scientific computing community since NumFOCUS began
three years ago. She has worked with the board of directors to initiate and
carry out fiscal sponsorship, fellowship and grant programs funding both
projects and individuals. She has also worked through the organization of
PyData events to further support the community as well as on scholarship
review committees of multiple conferences.

Dana Bauer: Geographer, Pythonista, open data enthusiast, mom to a future
robot programmer. Dana has over 54 repositories at GitHub and works as a
developer at Rackspace.

Kurt Kaiser is the Treasurer of the Python Software Foundation.

Congratulations to the organizers and members and best of luck in your
important work. We look forward to hearing about your activities.  
_  
_

_I would love to hear from readers. Please send feedback, comments, or blog
ideas to me at msushi@gnosis.cx._

  

