.. post:: 2015-02-26
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

John Pinner
===========

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/02/john-pinner.html>`_.

I am very sad to report that John Pinner has passed away. The Python Community
has lost a great friend. John received a PSF Community Service Award in 2010
for his many contributions. He was a PSF fellow and an organizer of PyCon UK
from 2007 to 2014 and of EuroPython from 2004 to 2011. He was also a frequent
speaker at PyCons, and at workshops and users' groups, as well as an
enthusiastic and effective advocate of Python and Open Source.

  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjdSHFhfy1vORHBxUc7qbythzZqKdXOhlOSVgfSUsPxh5QSFWRKN6ipYWJjAnDTUt0fEIrVe766RzGYkKNBRl-
LP6FchXp6qWtaGIEmC8xlC3csMCz_adUzXjOx8NvGQIJ-
Lx4/s1600/download.jpeg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjdSHFhfy1vORHBxUc7qbythzZqKdXOhlOSVgfSUsPxh5QSFWRKN6ipYWJjAnDTUt0fEIrVe766RzGYkKNBRl-
LP6FchXp6qWtaGIEmC8xlC3csMCz_adUzXjOx8NvGQIJ-Lx4/s1600/download.jpeg)

  

John was an original contributor to _Free and Libre Open Source Software UK
(FLOSS)_ , which started out as the _UK Unix Users Group (UKUUG)_. After
working 21 years as Principal Engineer for _The Rover Company Limited_ , he
decided to found his own company, _Clockwork Software Systems_.

His dedication to and interest in Python are best expressed in his own words:

_Thanks to Linux Journal I 'discovered' Python in 2000 and have been using it
ever since; together with an occasional regression to C, it covers all my
programming needs. I find that it gets in the way least of all the languages I
have used, and brings back the joy to programming. I am proud to be an elected
member of the Python Software Foundation, and am something of a Python
evangelist, through running training courses and promoting such events such as
PyCon UK._

I had the great honor and pleasure of meeting and spending time with John at
PyCon UK in 2013. He was a delightful host, full of energy, knowledge about
the locale (history, good beers and the best pubs, landmarks, neighborhoods,
cathedrals), and enthusiastic good will. To give a sense of his warm-hearted
and jovial personality to those who didn't know him, his intermediate-level
Python tutorial included such topics as _WTF is Pythonic  _and _it's not C,
C++ or Java, don't try and make it so._  Heartfelt condolences to his family
and to all whose lives he touched. He will be sorely missed.

