.. post:: 2015-02-05
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Geek Girls Carrots coming to PyCon 2015!
========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/02/geek-girls-carrots-coming-to-pycon-2015.html>`_.

Earlier this week, I posted about a workshop the PSF sponsored given by _Geek
Girls Carrots._  Since then, I've been in touch with organizer, Zuzanna
Podwińska, who provided the following additional information.

_Geek Girls Carrots is a community of women who are interested in IT and new
technologies. Our goal is to encourage women to take up IT-related careers,
and to promote women who already work in the field._

_To achieve this, we organize regular meet-ups as well as various coding
workshops. At each meet-up, we have a speaker - usually a woman who works with
new technologies - and a networking session, which is when members of the
community get to know each other and inspire each other. People who come to
our meetings are from various walks of life - some of them professionals, some
considering changing their career paths, some are just hobbyists. What
connects them all is love for new technologies._

_Our community was started by Kamila Sidor and Kamila Stępniowska in Warsaw,
Poland in 2011 and it has been rapidly growing ever since. At this point, we
organize meet-ups in 22 cities all over the world - mostly in Poland, but also
in places such as Berlin, London, Seattle, or New York City. The organizing
team is now 71 people and growing._

_Besides the meet-ups, we organize coding workshops, such as the Django
Carrots workshops which you supported. So far in Warsaw we have had five
editions of Django Carrots and 212 people - attendees and mentors - have
participated since the first edition._

_Every week, two coding workshops, Code Carrots Python and Code Carrots
JavaScript, take place in Warsaw.There is also a 6-week-long coding  `workshop
in Seattle <http://geekgirlscarrots.pl/code-carrots-seattle/>`_._

_Attendees of our programming workshops are very often people who want to
switch career paths to a more technical, IT-oriented one. Although sometimes
they are just curious to see what programming is all about. Most of our
workshops are for beginners. We meet at offices and co-working spaces made
available to us by our partners._

_What really keeps us going is the stories of women who started their
programming adventure with us and have since become professional developers.
My personal favourite is the story of Gosia, who, as a psychology graduate,
participated in the 3rd edition of Django Carrots and quickly realized
programming is the thing she wants to do. She decided to change her career
path completely and today not only is she a professional developer, but she
also teaches JavaScript at our weekly Code Carrots course. In fact, the other
female Code Carrots JS mentor also started programming with us._

You can find more information about Geek Girls Carrots at `Geek Girls
Carrots <http://geekgirlscarrots.pl/hello-english/>`_.

And the really exciting news is that Geek Girls are bringing a Django Carrots
workshop to PyCon 2015 in Montreal! If you haven't signed up yet, there's
still time: `Django Carrots
Workshop <https://us.pycon.org/2015/events/django_carrots_workshop/>`_. Looking
forward to meeting Zuzanna and her group in Montreal.

