.. post:: 2015-12-22
   :tags: conference, diversity, open source, post, outreach, education, Cuba, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Python-Cuba Workgroup
=====================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/12/python-cuba-workgroup.html>`_.

Today I’d like to report on some of the progress that has been made as a
result of last years' controversy over an April 1st joke post about a
(fictional) PyCon to be held in Cuba. As you may recall, the joke fell flat
for many–nonetheless, the intent to instigate a real movement toward greater
communication with Cuban Pythonistas, and perhaps to someday hold a conference
on the island, was fulfilled beyond the authors' expectations!

The first step occurred in May with the formation of a Python-Cuba Workgroup,
which was recognized in June by the PSF board as an official workgroup with a
`charter <https://wiki.python.org/psf/PythonCubaWG/Charter>`_. Since some group
members already had contacts with Cuban programmers, the workgroup was able to
begin a healthy collaboration. In addition, several Cuban Pythonistas made
contact with us after the April 1st newsblog post. Discussion and analysis of
issues, including internet access in Cuba, how to accommodate a multi-lingual
group, governmental involvement and obstacles, etc., began in earnest over the
summer.

Thanks to the hard work of many, including Kirby Unger, David Mertz, Roberto
Rosario, Steve Holden, Luciano Ramalho, Pablo Celayes in Argentina, Olemis
Lang in Cuba, and dozens of other supporters and members, the group has
recently gotten off the ground, and it looks like great things are about to
happen!

Pablo Celayes deserves special mention for his efforts in involving his
recently formed Python meet-up group in Cordoba, Argentina in the Python-Cuba
effort (`Cordoba, Argentina meet-up <http://www.meetup.com/Cordoba-Python-
Meetup/events/226908468/>`_). Cuban developer, Alejandro Zamora Fonesca, is
planning to visit Pablo and the rest of this group in Argentina this month to
further discuss the growth of Python in Cuba. We look forward to hearing about
that meeting on the Python Cuba mail list. In addition, Pablo will be
traveling to Cuba in January, and again in March,  and hopes to have some sort
of Python event organized for that time.

Indeed, Python events were already happening in Cuba prior to the formation of
our group, and those of us in the US found that there were many Cuban Python
developers eager to get more involved (for example, see
`Twitter <https://twitter.com/pythoncuba/status/618580757028605953>`_). Newer
groups, such as the `Merchise Start Up
Circle <http://www.meetup.com/merchise/events/226033248/>`_ in Havana, are
quickly growing and are busy planning future events. And plans are also
underway to offer workshops on Python and Django  as part of the `Cuba Free
Software Conference <http://www.cubaconf.org/>`_, to take place April 25 - 27.
This large, international event, sponsored by The User Group of Free
Technologies in Cuba (GUTL) and The Best of Open Techonologies in Germany
(BOOT), is currently looking for speakers and mentors, so if you’re
interested, please contact Pablo Mestre (pmdcuba at gmail.com).

These are just a few of the many ideas that are beginning to take form, and
I’ve mentioned only a few of the many people involved. But the excitement and
momentum are truly building. The Python-Cuba work group communicates by
`mailman listserv <https://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-cuba/>`_. Please
read the archives and subscribe to the list if you’d like to help.

_I would love to hear from readers. Please send feedback, comments, or blog
ideas to me at  `msushi@gnosis.cx <mailto:msushi@gnosis.cx>`_._

