.. post:: 2015-01-28
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The PSF Brochure
================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/01/2015-psf-news-blog-post-3-psf-brochure.html>`_.

Sometime back in 2011, the PSF realized that _Python_ , although at the time a
mature and widely-used language, was still unknown to many decision-makers
outside of the tech world. To remedy this obstacle to _Python'_ s growth (and
grave injustice), the brochure project was born.  

For over two years, the brochure team, headed by PSF Director, Marc-Andre
Lemburg, sought success stories and sponsors, in order to demonstrate to
_“CIOs and chief developers, scientists and programmers, university lecturers,
teachers and students, customers, clients, managers and employees”_   that
_Python_  could be the programming solution they were looking for. The
brochure team also worked hard to ensure there would be no cost to the PSF
membership by securing sponsors' ads to fund all printing and distribution.

Making its debut in April at _PyCon 2014_  in Montreal (issued in two releases
of 5,000 copies each, with the first release running out almost immediately),
the brochure was titled _“python: a programming language changes the world.”_
The brochure makes clear in 32 pages of vivid detail why _Python_  has become
a leading programming language in business and industry, finance, science and
research, media, education, the public sector, government, and charity
worldwide.

`![ <http://brochure.getpython.info/media/images/Newsletter4-Banner_20120705_12-44-50-800.jpg>`_](http://brochure.getpython.info/media/images/Newsletter4-Banner_20120705_12-44-50-800.jpg)

_Python_ 's leanness (for example, _"a task that requires an average of twenty
lines of code in C and seven in Java can often be done with just one line in
Python”_), agility and flexibility, ease of teaching and learning, capacity
for system integration, along with the extremely large number of libraries
available, were cited in the brochure over and over again as reasons for its
use. According to Chuck Groom – Head of Engineering at the Seattle
_SurveyMonkey_  office, _“The transition to Python from NET has been a great
success. Our Python applications handle heavy traffic without problems.
Developers have found it possible to add new features much more quickly than
before. New employees get up to speed in a manner of days, and recruiting has
become easier.”_  And other web-service providers featured in the brochure,
including _Google_  and _You Tube,  _are just as effusive in their praise.

Examples from science and industry also abound. _ArcGIS  _(geographic
information systems), who created the _ArcPy_  module for data analysis
conversion and management, identifies an additional benefit in describing the
_Python_  community as _“an extended workbench of a company's own IT
department.”_   More scientific uses are described in the brochure by
_OpenQuake_ , _OpenERP_ , and _Intellovations_  (maker of _ForecastWatch_).

Making _"heavy use of Python,"_  scientists at the _European Space Agency
(ESA)_  are able to develop software that will, in the future, be put to use
on Mars to search for signs of life. And at _CERN_ , physicists, in only 6
months, were able to replace the C++ analysis framework used for choosing
experiment parameters with _Python_. The result, _“This new system has been in
use for a few years now, and many problems that could not be solved using the
previous system are now literally one-liners.”_

Today's film industry is also shown to be committed to _Python_. Companies
such as _Industial Light and Magic_  and _Side Effects_  use _Python_  for
their animation software and to manage production processes. Accoring to Tommy
Burnette, head of _Global Pipeline, Lucasfilm,_  _"Python plays a key role in
our production pipeline. Without it a project the size of The Avengers would
have been very difficult to pull off. From crowd rendering to batch processing
to compositing, Python binds all things together."_   And _Blender , “a free
open-source 3D content creation suite,"_  uses _Python_ as its primary
language.

Not to be overlooked, the financial services industry is also featured as
greatly reliant on _Python_. Examples in the brochure include _Swisscom IT
Services_  and _Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg_. And companies such as
_eGenix.com,_ which provides _Python-_ based software to the nation of Ghana
for the collection of VAT revenue, point up _Python'_ s importance in
contributing to developing economies.

The brochure also features several educational uses of _Python_  that serve to
empower disadvantaged learners, like _One Laptop per Child (OLPC)_ , which has
provided laptop computers to over 2.5 million children and teachers in 42
countries, and the _PHOENIX project (Physics with Homemade Equipment and
Innovative Experiments)_  started in 2004 by the _Inter University Accelerator
Centre (IUAC)_  in India.

The above are just a few of the abundant and impressive stories highlighted in
the PSF brochure. Visit the website or download a copy for more info about how
_Python_  is indeed _"__changing the world.__"_  And If you or someone you
know would benefit from this type of exposure or if you have a success story
you'd like to share, please let us know.

  

  

  

