.. post:: 2015-02-12
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Python featured in "Nature"
===========================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/02/the-esteemed-international-scientific.html>`_.

The esteemed, international scientific journal
`_Nature_ <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nature_%28journal%29>`_ has just
published an article that names Python as _THE_  programming language to use
for scientists and researchers. The article, written by Jeffrey M. Perkel,
`Programming: Pick up Python a powerful programming language with huge
community support. <http://www.nature.com/news/programming-pick-up-
python-1.16833>`_ makes clear that programming skills are necessary tools for
all working scientists. And Python is increasingly becoming the language that
is considered the most powerful, flexible, and easy-to-learn tool available
for working with what has become the raw material of today's science—big data.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEit8zYkndG6GJIDQRmHSW1RTh9FfoaENR2rFZCWQaKIM_UXDY2TkPAwADa5tMNv1-CV0RAIidIRGWmUUt1YUawsLk3WRaCoT0ACW_twZKJOLlXO2T4DTkVQrjIOOdozDpz84CE/s1600/Nature+article.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEit8zYkndG6GJIDQRmHSW1RTh9FfoaENR2rFZCWQaKIM_UXDY2TkPAwADa5tMNv1-CV0RAIidIRGWmUUt1YUawsLk3WRaCoT0ACW_twZKJOLlXO2T4DTkVQrjIOOdozDpz84CE/s1600/Nature+article.jpg)

Photo credit: Kirby Urner `CC-
BY-2.0 <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/>`_

Perkel's account begins with a case example. Dr. Adina Howe, an Environmental
Engineer, realized upon taking a research job that she needed programming
skills. Python was the language recommended to her by her boss at her first
research lab job. Currently, as a Professor of Agriculture and Biosystems
Engineering at Iowa State University, she includes programming skills in the
curricula for future scientists.

According to Perkel, "Among the host of computer-programming languages that
scientists might choose to pick up, Python, first released in 1991 by Dutch
programmer Guido van Rossum, is an increasingly popular (and free)
recommendation. It combines simple syntax, abundant online resources and a
rich ecosystem of scientifically focused toolkits with a heavy emphasis on
community."

The Python community is cited as particularly important to Python's growing
adoption. Perkel quotes PSF Director Jessica McKellar, who uses the concept of
a "virtuous cycle" to help explain Python's rapid growth. According to
McKellar "new users extend the language into new areas, which in turn attracts
still more users."

Perkel also credits the many Python packages and libraries ("batteries
included") that allow the language to be useful for a huge variety of
purposes. In fact, as the programming community knows very well, that is the
beauty of open source—if a need arises, the community will create a module or
library to meet that need. Specific packages mentioned in the article are
_NumPy_  (mathematical arrays), _SciPy_  (linear algebra, differential
equations, signal processing and more), _SymPy_  (symbolic mathematics),
_matplotlib_  (graph plotting) and _Pandas_  (data analysis), and _Cython_.

