.. post:: 2017-10-25
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PSF's October Board Meeting
===========================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/10/psfs-october-board-meeting.html>`_.

Last week Monday, October 16th, the Python Software Foundation held its first
in-person director meeting outside of PyCon. We were able to get 9 directors
together and address a hefty agenda. Each section below summarizes a major
topic that we addressed during the meeting.

  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgzLzOmPLzgYZX-7_IMG7Pwk6gVLprUG1QK0D9W-_uiaJU9Kq8h4DxV2mEYF12Y4X_UN7Ax7_yb-
REiZEUo1-fl3WI07gYXWCxngotKmi6OY4xJuXQAE37ELsYudHnwioi_suY/s320/image000000.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgzLzOmPLzgYZX-7_IMG7Pwk6gVLprUG1QK0D9W-_uiaJU9Kq8h4DxV2mEYF12Y4X_UN7Ax7_yb-
REiZEUo1-fl3WI07gYXWCxngotKmi6OY4xJuXQAE37ELsYudHnwioi_suY/s1600/image000000.jpg)  
---  
_PSF Directors and friends having dinner in Chicago the night before the
meeting_  
  
  
*Fiscal Sponsorship*

We started the day with a discussion on `fiscal
sponsorship <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiscal_sponsorship>`_. From a
community perspective, a broader fiscal sponsorship program would allow
greater opportunities for corporate funding of key Python projects. Van
Lindberg, PSF's General Counsel, gave directors an explanation of what it
meant and we discussed the risks and benefits involved in such a program.
While the PSF currently has a limited fiscal sponsorship program, we are
considering expanding the range of our sponsorships to include Python dev
projects such as PyPy. Van is creating a new template contract to use in such
agreements, with additional research required to identify the legal
implications of fiscally sponsoring organizations that are located outside of
the United States. Another necessary change to accommodate the broader fiscal
sponsorship requires the PSF's financial staff, Kurt B. Kaiser and Phyllis
Dobbs, to document a workflow for how payments/reimbursements will be made in
these arrangements.

  

*Official Board Meeting*

Our second session of the day was an official board meeting where we began by
approving September's meeting minutes. A subsequent discussion began on how we
can use the python.org/jobs page to enhance our fundraising efforts. PSF
employee, Betsy Waliszewski, will contact the python.org/jobs volunteer group
to solicit feedback on how we can tie in their work with fundraising more
directly. Another item decided at the board meeting includes the PSF IT
Manager, Mark Mangoba, beginning to produce periodic reports for the board on
PSF infrastructure traffic. Lastly, Director Eric Holscher and I gave a status
update on the Python Packaging Work Group's recent receipt of Mozilla's MOSS
Grant. A blog will be written on this topic once more details are confirmed.

  

*PyCon's "Everyone contributes"*

The third session of the day continued with Ernest W. Durbin III, PyCon
Conference Chair, joining us via phone to discuss various PyCon items. A
significant part of the conversation  tackled the "Everyone pays" policy that
PyCon has historically maintained. Responsibilities have increased over time
so that phrase no longer applies. For example, the PSF employs two full-time
employees to execute PyCon in addition to all of the volunteer work that
happens. Additionally, volunteer appreciation has evolved. Due to changes like
this, we have agreed to change the phrase to "Everyone contributes." Since
everyone that attends contributes their time and/or money, we found that to be
a more suitable phrase to use.

  

*PyCon's Speaker Financial Support*

Recently we heard from our community that PyCon's speaker financial support
could be improved. Ernest recently made a change in our process that will help
financial support easier on behalf of both the PSF and PyCon speakers. The
change Ernest made lives on the speaker profile page
`us.pycon.org <http://us.pycon.org/>`_. When potential speakers are completing
their speaker profiles, they can check the "I require a speaker grant if my
proposal is accepted" option, and the speaker will receive financial support
needed if their talk is accepted. Another suggestion came from PSF Director
Trey Hunner. Trey pointed out various conferences around the world the PSF can
learn from. Furthermore, we discussed that we need to be more transparent
about the availability of speaker grants.

  

An option considered was the possibility of providing all speakers free
registration to PyCon. Ultimately we decided on PyCon providing speaker
financial assistance to anyone that requests it. The reasoning behind that
decision is that PyCon profits help fund the Python Software Foundation's
global community giving. Given the significant impact that PyCon profits have,
we encourage those that can to pay for their conference registrations. In
2016, the PSF gave out $292,471 in grants worldwide thanks to the revenue
generated through PyCon. So far this year (up to Q3), we have given $221,763
and we anticipate to give more than $300,000 in grants next year.

  

The below graphs show that PSF international support is increasing. For
example in 2017 we increased support in Africa by 13.86% and the year is not
over yet. Everyone who contributes to PyCon financially helps us make a global
difference.

  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiEOeOpXWlQAEecpkKrRiI9agS0479sx8cELaDINPAXsL0jz8kEF0iHFZXKy_e0ZSE4EW9ayDjyGw2cY8FOzBaSkATAAWoWx0RFrYdmITylbuus_aaSQED8hy7uEAZq16pLJFk/s400/2016_2017.png>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiEOeOpXWlQAEecpkKrRiI9agS0479sx8cELaDINPAXsL0jz8kEF0iHFZXKy_e0ZSE4EW9ayDjyGw2cY8FOzBaSkATAAWoWx0RFrYdmITylbuus_aaSQED8hy7uEAZq16pLJFk/s1600/2016_2017.png)  
---  
_PSF Grant spending by continent.  `A clearer view is available
here. <https://www.dropbox.com/s/lakaqwemmc03x24/2016_2017.png?dl=0>`_ _  
  
  
  

*Trademark for PyPI*

The next agenda item the board discussed pertained to filing a PyPI trademark.
One of the core missions of the PSF is the protection of the Python community
– including the safeguarding of Python’s intellectual property. An
increasingly important part of Python’s intellectual property are the
trademarks and logos we use to identify Python and its associated services to
the world. Given the increasing importance of PyPI, the board decided that it
would be wise to officially register some PyPI-related trademarks in various
places around the world. We discussed the various ways we can file trademark
requests and we also reviewed financial quotes from three law firms. We
decided to file the logo trademark and also the word mark "PyPI". Van Lindberg
will continue working on that process.

  

*Grant Accountability*

Since the PSF has continued to fund more grants each year, we discussed the
idea of grant accountability. One of our directors, Paul Hildebrandt, is
working on an event report template to help us better understand and track the
benefit that our grant giving is having on communities that we sponsor. We
will report on this issue further as it develops.

  

*Alternative Ways of Giving Money*

During this agenda item we discussed the benefits that matching grants may
have for the PSF. Eric Holscher brought up the idea that matching grant
agreements can help improve PSF's marketing, along with helping the grantee
generate more total revenue. Additionally, we discussed the possibility of
being proactive with soliciting specific grant types. For example, this would
be useful if we wanted to zone in on specific support for Python development
work and/or to support Python educators. Jacqueline Kazil, PSF Director,
suggested that we make some improvements to our `grant policy
page <https://www.python.org/psf/grants/>`_ by including more reference points
for improved guidance. Work on this will continue remotely. We also decided to
work on slides we can provide to PSF-funded events that will inform the public
about what the PSF does.

  

*Board Role in Fundraising*

As part of her efforts to help the foundation mature, PSF Chair Naomi Ceder
started a discussion on how board members can more directly help the PSF’s
overall financial standing through supporting PSF fundraising efforts. No
concrete plans were made, but the board will continue exploring its role under
Naomi’s leadership.

  

*Multi-lingual Blog/Documentation/Website*

The PSF's Communication Chair, Lorena Mesa, gathered input from the group on
how we can improve our community support by improving our translations
efforts. The next step will be to list all of the community assets that could
be translated, prioritize them, and get a work group started to help with the
efforts. As a part of this effort Lorena is seeking community input on assets
of particular importance and community priorities in translation efforts.

  

*Strategic Planning*

The last two hours of the day were dedicated to high-level strategizing,
particularly in discussing the future of the PSF.  During this conversation,
the PSF decided that, over time, the PSF needs to gradually rebuild and
professionalize to permit better efficiency in supporting the global Python
community.. Unfortunately we realized that two hours was not enough time to
cover everything we would like to discuss.

  

Some items we did get to discuss included determining what we wanted our
financial reserve to be. Thomas Wouters, the PSF's Vice Chairperson, guided
the discussion through various questions and comments pertaining to the types
of risks we are facing and the types of things we can do with the financial
reserve. We discussed the need to invest our reserve as well.

  

Another item briefly addressed included ways the PSF can grow by connecting
PyPI to our fundraising efforts. We discussed how we can collaborate with
related groups to be more intentional with our grant giving.

  

Aside from these future goals, we decided to arrange for nonprofit board
training at PyCon 2018. This will help us with expectations and will
strengthen the strategic planning process.

  

*Executive Committee*

The goal of the October 16th discussions was to begin the process of strategic
planning. Even though we are still at the beginning of the process, we did
create an Executive Committee to follow this through. Naomi Ceder, Van
Lindberg, Thomas Wouters, and I met at the end of the day and decided our next
step is to create an Executive Summary of the PSF. We need to have a better
grasp of all PSF details before we continue. Our goal is to have it completed
by PyCon 2018 so the board members can meet once again and continue the
process of strategic planning.

  

All in all, it was a very productive meeting and we will aim to hold these
meetings annually. At future in-person meetings, we will try to have fewer
items on the agenda to enable more conversation around each topic. It is
surprising how fast an hour goes by when 10 people are contributing to the
discussion. Since we don't meet in person often, we all have a lot to say!

