.. post:: 2017-03-10
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Ee takes the call - Community Service Award Recipient Ee Durbin
===============================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/03/ernest-takes-call-community-service.html>`_.

The day was October 23, 2015, Friday afternoon. The PSF and PyCon organizers
were busy pulling together sponsors for the upcoming PyCon conference when
suddenly, the ancient mail server 'albatross' suffered a hard disk crash.
Email was down, grant requests would not go through, and PyCon planning was at
a stand still. To make matters worse, most of the volunteers who had helped
set up the initial mail server were away. Something had to be done, and fast.
Ee Durbin, a volunteer systems admin, took the call. With no documentation on
how to fix the existing mail server, they worked diligently through the
weekend to rebuild it. Thanks to Ee's hard work and dedication, the PSF and
PyCon US were able to resume operations before the following Monday.

*  
*  

For their enthusiasm and years of volunteering, the Python Software Foundation
awards the 4th Quarter 2016 Community Service Award to Ee Durbin:

*  
*  

RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the 4th Quarter 2016
Community Service Award to Ernest W. Durbin III. Ernest has been a dedicated
volunteer of the PSF for several years. Countless times he has triaged PSF
infrastructure. Beyond that, Ernest has been a key person in creating
structure for our infrastructure. Not only does that include internal
infrastructure such as `mail.python.org <http://mail.python.org/>`_, that also
includes external infrastructure such as PyPI. Recently, Ernest has also
accepted the position of PyCon 2017 US co-chair and PyCon 2018/19 conference
chair.

*  
*  

Durbin’s involvement in PSF began in 2012. They recalls, “A friend of mine
submitted a proposal and we were selected for the task.” After a few months of
doing paid work for the PSF, they realized that they would be more comfortable
volunteering their time, and has been doing so ever since. “Ee has been a huge
help with the growth of PSF's infrastructure,” says Ewa Jodlowska, Director of
Operations at PSF. “[They] ensure that we are keeping best practices and that
the knowledge of proper processes is passed on. I am grateful that they have
been able to lend their expertise in such a way.”

*  
*  

In addition to providing volunteer technical support for the PSF, Durbin has
also become a Python community organizer. They will serve as co-chair of PyCon
2017 and has taken on the responsibilities of full conference chair for PyCon
2018 and 2019. They are also an organizer for their local Python meetup group.

*  
*  

When asked about why Durbin chooses to promote Python and the PSF Durbin
responded, “Python has been my language of choice for most of my career,”
adding that they “have always appreciated the great breadth and depth of
experience in the Python community as represented by the available packages on
PyPI. It is such a testament to the community's collective knowledge and
generosity when nine times out of ten you can find something that fulfills
your need.”

*  
*  

As for the email server incident, Durbin simply brushes off the stress
explaining “it was a great way to meet new folks in the Python community and
work with them towards a common goal.”

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgtlL_0HC8KSqpuCNmKmxEYqITKW85btE2_x6b0EAMHq-6OQDg7MSfcWeOhNH6fl5GCameOyHFLc23sT-
UuIkpOaNMNz2stwQspALPbaOJkAzeMWMZ92IegAXnXv98nJupyyQ/s320/image_2.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgtlL_0HC8KSqpuCNmKmxEYqITKW85btE2_x6b0EAMHq-6OQDg7MSfcWeOhNH6fl5GCameOyHFLc23sT-
UuIkpOaNMNz2stwQspALPbaOJkAzeMWMZ92IegAXnXv98nJupyyQ/s1600/image_2.jpg)  
---  
Ee Durbin, CSA Winner 2016 Q4  
When not programming, you can find Durbin out in their garage working on his
1960’s era SAABs or hosting Taco Tuesdays for large groups of friends.

  

Note: Edited 2022-05-23 to reflect Ee's chosen name

