.. post:: 2017-07-17
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Welcome New Board Members
=========================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/07/welcome-new-board-members.html>`_.

The PSF is thrilled to welcome six new board members, chosen on June 11 during
the 2017 PSF Board Election. The PSF would not be what it is without the
expertise and diversity of our board, and we look forward to seeing what our
new members accomplish this quarter. Read on to learn more about them and
their initial goals as PSF Board Members.

*  
*  

`Paul Hildebrandt <https://twitter.com/paulhildebrandt>`_ has been a Senior
Engineer with Walt Disney Animation Studios since 1996. He resides outside of
Los Angeles with his wife and three boys. In his first quarter, he hopes to
serve the Python community by better understanding the well-oiled machine that
is the PSF and by handling regular board activity. He desires to contribute by
focusing on sponsorship and corporate involvement opportunities.

*  
*  

`Eric Holscher <https://twitter.com/ericholscher>`_ is co-founder of Read the
Docs and Write the Docs, where he works

to elevate the status of documentation in the software industry. He has hiked
800 miles of the Pacific Crest Trail, and spends most of his spare time in the
woods or traveling the world. His wish is to focus on sustainability and to
create a new initiative that will bring in sponsors who are focused on the
sustainability of the ecosystem such as PyPI, Read the Docs, and pip.

*  
*  

`Marlene Mhangami <https://twitter.com/marlene_zw>`_ is the director and co-
founder of ZimboPy, an organization that teaches Zimbabwean girls how to code
in Python. Through her organization she has worked with the organizers of
Django Girls Chinoyi and Harare, as well as PyCon Zimbabwe to grow the use of
Python locally. Her goals for the quarter are to help connect, support, and
represent issues relevant to Pythonistas in Africa. She will seek to increase
the number of PyCons in the region and facilitate the inclusion of women and
other underrepresented groups.

*  
*  

`Paola Katherine Pacheco <https://twitter.com/pk_pacheco>`_ is a backend Python
developer and organizer of Python groups such as PyLadies Brazil, PyLadies Rio
de Janeiro, Django Girls Rio de Janeiro, Pyladies Mendoza and Python Mendoza.
She runs a YouTube channel where she teaches Python in Portuguese. Her goals
this quarter are to energize Python events for the Brazilian and Argentine
Python communities, and to increase diversity by promoting education and
events to women and underrepresented groups.

*  
*  

`Kenneth Reitz <https://twitter.com/kennethreitz>`_ is the product owner of
Python at Heroku. He is well-known for his many open source software projects,
specifically `Requests: HTTP for Humans <http://python-requests.org/>`_. He
seeks to contribute towards the PSF's continued optimization of its
operations, increase its sustainability, and the sustainability of the entire
Python ecosystem.

  

`Thomas Wouters <https://twitter.com/Yhg1s>`_ is a long-time CPython core
developer and a founding PSF member. He has worked at Google since 2006,
maintaining the internal Python infrastructure. His immediate goal is to get
reacquainted with the PSF procedures and the matters the board attends to,
both of which have changed a lot since he last served on the Board of
Directors. Longer term, he would like to work on the awareness of the
practical side of the Python community: the website, mailing lists, and other
help channels like IRC, as well as actual code development and services like
PyPI.

