.. post:: 2022-07-21
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Distinguished Service Award Granted to Naomi Ceder
==================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/07/distinguished-service-award-granted-to.html>`_.

Naomi Ceder, a longtime Python activist and organizer has been recognized with
the PSF’s Distinguished Service Award. Naomi served on the PSF Board from
2015-2020, and as Chair from 2017-2020, supported the search for a new
Executive Director last year and
`keynoted <https://www.naomiceder.tech/posts/pycon_keynote_2022/>`_ the most
recent PyCon US in Salt Lake City.  
  
The PSF’s Distinguished Service Award
(`DSA <https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-distinguished-awards/>`_) is
granted to individuals who make sustained exemplary contributions to the
Python community. Each award is voted on by the PSF Board and they are looking
for people whose impact has positively and significantly shaped the Python
world. Naomi’s work with the Python community very much exemplifies the ethos
of “build the community you want to see.” She seems to particularly enjoy
taking on the hardest parts, getting a new initiative started and figuring out
how to take an idea from the drawing board to a regular activity that we can’t
imagine leaving out.  
  
After receiving the award Naomi shared, "I'm so grateful for the recognition,
and even more grateful for all of the support that our community has given me
over the years. I'm excited to see a new generation of Python volunteers
continue the work to make our community and the PSF more global and inclusive,
and I'm looking forward to working with smaller communities as they grow and
develop."  
  
Over the years Naomi has taken on many leadership roles to make PyCon US
successful and welcoming. She served as Chair of the Hatchery Program and she
helped found PyCon Charlas, our Spanish language track. At different points in
time, she’s also been the Co-chair of Sprints, an Organizer of the PyCon
Education Summit and Chair for poster sessions at PyCon US. She also co-
founded `Trans*Code <https://www.trans.tech>`_, an on-going series of hackdays
(mostly) in the UK, which aims to build community and foster tech education
and skills for transgender and non-binary folks. PyCon US and the global
Python community would not look like it does without her tireless, largely
behind the scenes work. Her deep thoughtfulness coupled with her energy is an
immeasurable gift to the Python community.  
  
Curious about previous recipients of the DSA or wondering how to nominate
someone? `We got you <https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-
distinguished-awards/>`_.  

