.. post:: 2022-03-22
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Meta deepens its investment in the Python ecosystem
===================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/03/meta-deepens-its-investment-in-python.html>`_.

As the backbone to many Meta Services ranging from Instagram to its AI and
data infrastructure, Python is very important to Meta.
`PyTorch <https://pytorch.org/>`_ is built on Python, accelerating the path from
ML research and prototyping to production within Meta and across the open
source ML ecosystem.
`Cinder <https://github.com/facebookincubator/cinder#readme>`_ is Meta’s
performance-oriented version of Python that allows Instagram to run at global
scale. `Pyre <https://pyre-check.org/>`_ is a performant type-checker used by
thousands of Python developers in Meta.

To support the Python ecosystem, we are excited to announce that *Meta has
made a $300,000 Visionary level sponsorship of the Python Software
Foundation* (PSF) that will provide critical support to the PSF and fund a
second year of the successful Developer-in-Residence program. Meta is also
committed to long-term investment in Python’s performance, by upstreaming
improvements from Cinder, and `making it more broadly
available <https://discuss.python.org/t/making-cinder-more-broadly-
available/14062>`_.  


*Developer-in-Residence: The second year*  

The Developer-in-Residence program was `launched in
2021 <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/07/ukasz-langa-is-inaugural-
cpython.html>`_, dedicating a full-time role to CPython. Python is a powerful
and popular open-source language, used by millions of people around the world,
in applications ranging from basic programming tutorials to `literal rocket
science <https://learnpython.com/blog/python-on-mars/>`_. This is made possible
by the nature of Open Source. The Developer-in-Residence program was
established to provide full-time support to volunteers working on Python,
tackling problems that are best solved by a dedicated role.

`Łukasz Langa <https://lukasz.langa.pl/>`_ is the inaugural Developer-in-
Residence. A seasoned Python core developer and release manager for Python 3.8
and 3.9, in the first year of the program he is using his unique position to
make progress on key projects that are impractical to complete with volunteer
time, like chipping away at the backlog of pull requests and completing the
migration of bugs.python.org to GitHub Issues, as well as mentoring new core
developers.  
  
Meta’s funding of a second year of the Developer-in-Residence program allows
crucial continuity and stability. Knowing the role is funded for a second
year, Łukasz, with direction from the Steering Council and support from the
PSF, can take a farther looking view to plan ahead, invest in setting up the
foundation for long-term projects, and build on the lessons of the inaugural
year.

"Being able to work full-time on Python is a dream come true for me. I'm
humbled and grateful for the opportunity, and now for the ongoing trust by the
PSF and Meta. I'm extremely happy I'll be able to do that for yet another
year. Having somebody around to do code review full time helps the rest of the
team focus on what they do best. With the role extending into 2023, I can
start talking about more long-term contribution plans. I can't wait!" _\-
Łukasz Langa_  

The PSF is thrilled that thanks to Meta’s generosity, we will be able to
continue this successful program, which will grow and deepen its impact on the
future of CPython and the Python community in the second year.  

*Foundation sponsorship for the PSF*

Meta’s donation will also provide substantial support to the PSF and our core
programs, including maintaining and supporting `PyPI.org <http://PyPI.org>`_,
our `grants program <https://www.python.org/psf/grants/>`_ reaching Pythonista
projects around the world, `PyCon US <https://pycon.org/>`_ bringing together
the Python community, stewardship of Python intellectual property, and
foundational infrastructure for hosting the language and new Python releases.

We are proud to recognize Meta as a *Visionary Sponsor* of our work, helping
to make the full range of our programs and the Python ecosystem sustainable in
the long term. The PSF and everything we do would not be possible without the
participation of sponsors like Meta. We are deeply grateful for their
investment, which is part of building the foundation that will enable the PSF
and Python to thrive for years to come.  
  
  
  
  

