.. post:: 2022-04-07
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PSF Welcomes New Executive Director Deb Nicholson
=================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/04/deb-nicholson-new-executive-director.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation (PSF), the non-profit home of the Python
programming language community, welcomes Deb Nicholson as its new Executive
Director. With 15 years of open source experience and over 25 years of non-
profit experience, Deb is joining the organization just in time for the first
in-person PyCon US since 2019. Community members and supporters will have a
chance to meet her at `this year’s conference <https://us.pycon.org/2022/>`_,
later this month in Salt Lake City, Utah.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEha1rL3KPMrzzxAWMl1UoJNoNVDDC-
sknYQuxsGSWpVSjJHQO8VpC0Gfpa6jdB-
HGnywC_5rW9RSMFke51g-8UnPerQ_DpMcH9J6KaLGhccCWm4zZjMMMbDLCEJr31ogvr1aIFRcruB2iEhHAseZnUt8bocZbUFCf19y2L6C79rx8ej/s320/20190601_DebatMeowWolf.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEha1rL3KPMrzzxAWMl1UoJNoNVDDC-
sknYQuxsGSWpVSjJHQO8VpC0Gfpa6jdB-
HGnywC_5rW9RSMFke51g-8UnPerQ_DpMcH9J6KaLGhccCWm4zZjMMMbDLCEJr31ogvr1aIFRcruB2iEhHAseZnUt8bocZbUFCf19y2L6C79rx8ej/s2592/20190601_DebatMeowWolf.jpg)

Lorena Mesa, PSF Chairperson comments, “After many years of successful growth
under former PSF Executive Director Ewa Jodlowska’s leadership, the PSF has
matured into a stable organization and is uniquely positioned to expand upon
on our successes, while continuing to lead the way in diversity and
inclusivity for Pythonistas and the broader community of technology users and
creators alike.”

Following inaugural PSF Executive Director `Ewa
Jodlowska <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/12/a-message-from-psfs-outgoing-
executive.html>`_, who was with the PSF for nearly eleven years, Deb is taking
the reins from Thomas Wouters who has been serving as the Interim General
Manager. Ewa grew the PSF from a small organization into a financially
sustainable home for the world’s most popular programming language, for which
the community will be forever grateful.

“Deb is an incredibly community-minded person with a wealth of experience that
will help the Foundation grow and deepen our connections with Python users
around the world. I’m looking forward to working with her and seeing what the
PSF will accomplish next with her at the helm,” said Thomas Wouters, Board
Director and Interim General Manager.

Deb Nicholson most recently served as the Interim General Manager for the Open
Source Initiative during `a transitional
year <https://opensource.org/OutgoingGMReflections>`_ for the critical policy
organization. She’s also been a longtime supporter of the Python community
with her work as a founding Board member and tutor at OpenHatch and local
organizer for the `Boston Python User
Group <https://www.meetup.com/bostonpython/>`_. She’s looking forward to
combining her experience in non-profit management and open source communities
in service of the Python community.

Please join us in welcoming Deb to the PSF! If you have any questions, please
email `psf@python.org <mailto:psf@python.org>`_.

  

