.. post:: 2018-12-17
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Evangelizing Python in Africa: Chukwudi Nwachukwu, Q2 CSA Recipient
===================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2018/12/evangelizing-python-in-africa-chukwudi_65.html>`_.

  

Chukwudi, or Chux as he is often referred to in more familiar circles, is the
president of `Python Nigeria <https://pycon.ng/>`_ (@PythonNigeria) and has
served as part of the PSF’s Grants Working Group for several years. Some of
the work he has done with the grants working group involves dealing with very
delicate situations, as grant requests need to be authenticated and require
due diligence to properly understand the local context for preparing and
awarding a grant. According to Nicholas H. Tollervey, a fellow Grants Working
Group member, Chux regularly contacts, researches and (where possible) visits
in-person many of the requesters so the Grants Work Group has the context
needed to be able to make an informed decision. All of this detail oriented
work requires a great deal of interpersonal skill and effort, which Chux
exerts freely as a credit to our larger Python community.

  

It is for this demonstrated passion and devotion to the Python community that
in `July
2018 <https://www.python.org/psf/records/board/minutes/2018-07-24/#id4>`_ the
Python Software Foundation unanimously voted to award Chukwudi Nwachukwu with
a `Q2 2018 Community Award <https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-
awards/#id4>`_:

  

RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the Q3 2018 Community

Service Award to Chukwudi Nwachukwu for all of the support he provides the
PSF's Grants Work Group by researching regional grant requests and for all of
his contributions to the Python Nigeria community.

  

*Python in Nigeria*

  

The Python community in Nigeria has grown exponentially in the last few years.
Chux has done an incredible job of guiding this growth along with Aisha Bello,
the Vice President of `Pycon Nigeria <https://www.python.org/events/python-
events/733/>`_ (@Pythonnigeria). PyCon Nigeria launched for the first time in
August 2017, and was the fourth PyCon to have been hosted on the African
continent. Aisha Bello share her thoughts on Chux winning the award, saying:

  

_“I have known and worked with Chuks for over 2 years now and he is family.
His passion for the python community as a whole and his significant
contributions, continuous sacrifices and dedication has gone a long way in
shaping the collective growth and successes we have had. He definitely
deserved the award"  _

  

As a new Director for the PSF, I was able to attend the conference and witness
first hand Chux’s thoughtful leadership and strong organizational skills. He
attended the event with his wife and new baby, happily commenting how he
wanted to make sure his family became plugged into the Python community as
early  as possible. He tried his best to navigate through the room, making
sure that everyone present felt comfortable and informed.

  

  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgOflxa6xXMgFn0l5cRR1IZ9HZMM81mgeA2pW8wpiftjnu9FUoKrdoY2xUbMAsU5NvhzXcExMvJC6BydTsjBErtv7uhInJ1xzYZo704_9cjVEhLtFguGDZBMeFPwukUgFhpqg/s320/ichux-
image.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgOflxa6xXMgFn0l5cRR1IZ9HZMM81mgeA2pW8wpiftjnu9FUoKrdoY2xUbMAsU5NvhzXcExMvJC6BydTsjBErtv7uhInJ1xzYZo704_9cjVEhLtFguGDZBMeFPwukUgFhpqg/s1600/ichux-
image.jpg)

  

  

Chux is an integral part of the Nigerian and global Python community.
According to Tosin Damilare James Animashaun, a member of the local Python
community in Lagos, Chux is one of the reasons he joined:

  

“ _Many, like myself, owe our entrance and involvement with the community to
Chukwudi,_ _who is very dedicated to advancing the cause of the community.
This is aside from him being a great programmer, as I have worked with him well enough to know
this. He is a great influence. I have no doubt that Chuk’s  passion is
definitely Python. In his words, "Python is something I code and breathe." _



_ _*PyCon Africa: The continued growth of Python in Africa*

  

Chukwudi has done and continues to work tirelessly to forward the mission of
the PSF by supporting its sustainable growth in Africa. He is also involved in
planning the upcoming PyCon Africa, where he has offered to share his
knowledge in regards to running a conference. He is well known in the region,
interacting daily with African Pythonistas. He is consistently looking for
ways to connect, support and grow the Python community and for that, he is
truly deserving of this award. From all of us at  the PSF we say a hearty
thank you for all your hard work Chukwudi!

  

