.. post:: 2008-10-29
   :tags: post, meeting, regional, arkansas, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

First pyArkansas an Unqualified Success
=======================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2008/10/first-pyarkansas-unqualified-success.html>`_.

We are grateful to Greg Lindstrom for the following feedback on a recent
successful regional event. Congratulations are due to the organizers.

We held our 1-day "pyArkansas" conference on the campus of the University of
Central Arkansas with 57 people attending. There was a surprising mix of
beginners (which we expected) and experienced (which pleasantly surprised us).
The first half of the day was dedicated to classes; Python 101 (Dr. Bernard
Chen of UCA), Intermediate Python (Jeff Rush) and Python for System
Administrators (Noah Gift). A way cool perk was that everyone attending the
sys admin class received a copy of Noah's new book! The afternoon was
dedicated to talks and open space. All participants received a swag bag with a
copy of Python Magazine, a GIS magazine, python stickers and other stuff.

We had fantastic support from various employers and the Conway Chamber of
Commerce. I am pleased to thank the PSF for your offer of $300 reimbursement
and very respectfully decline it; we were able to cover our expenses, provide
lodging for Jeff and Noah, and even give them a few dollars for their efforts.
We have a grant request in to the Conway Advertising and Promotion Commission
for $3,000 for next year. If we get that, the Chamber of Commerce will pony up
another $1,500, leaving us with about $1,000 more to raise. Bringing in
speakers was very well -- extremely well -- received and we want to expand on
it next year, with a goal to bring in 4 speakers/teachers. Modeling the
conference as a hybrid between a "mini-PyCon" and an "unconference" makes
sense as many of our participants were brand new to Python while others wanted
open space.

We got some `very nice
ink <http://businessfromthejohn.blogspot.com/2008/10/arkansas-gets-it.html>`_
from Dr. John Tabor. It's that kind of response that prompted the Chamber of
Commerce to have us submit a grant request to the A&P.

I have a more detailed report written up if anyone would like to see it (or if
there is somewhere I can post it).

Thanks for your encouragement and support. Special thanks to Noah and Jeff for
making the trip to Arkansas.

Please note that, while we are pleased that this event managed to run without
our sponsorship, the PSF Board is always prepared to consider funding requests
for events that demonstrably benefit the Python community.

