.. post:: 2024-01-12
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

EU’s Cyber Resilience Act Passes with Wins for Open Source
==========================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/01/CRA-update.html>`_.

Back in April, we `wrote to the
community <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/04/the-eus-proposed-cra-law-may-
have.html>`_ about our concerns for the future of the open source ecosystem
generally and CPython and PyPI specifically if the European Cyber Resilience
Act (CRA) were to pass in the form that had been shared. At the time, we were
worried that in the course of providing software for anyone to use, analyze or
change that the PSF and/or the Python community might become legally
responsible for security issues in the products that are built with the code
components that we are providing for free. We asked for increased clarity,
specifically:  
  

“Language that specifically exempts public software repositories that are
offered as a public good for the purpose of facilitating collaboration would
make things much clearer. We'd also like to see our community, especially the
hobbyists, individuals and other under-resourced entities who host packages on
free public repositories like PyPI be exempt.”  

  
The good news is that CRA text* changed a lot between the time the open source
community – including the PSF – started expressing our concerns and the Act’s
final text which was `cemented on December
1st <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber_Resilience_Act>`_. That text introduces
the idea of an “open source steward.”  
  

_“'open-source software steward’ means any legal person, other than a
manufacturer, which has the purpose or objective to systematically provide
support on a sustained basis for the development of specific products with
digital elements qualifying as free and open-source software that are intended
for commercial activities, and ensures the viability of those products;” (p.
76)_  

  
Furthermore, the final text demonstrates a crisper understanding of how open
source software works and the value it provides to the overall ecosystem of
software development.  
  

_“More specifically, for the purpose of this Regulation and in relation to the
economic operators referred therein, to ensure that there is a clear
distinction between the development and the supply phases, the provision of
free and open-source software products with digital elements that are not
monetised by their manufacturers is not considered a commercial activity.” (p.
10)_  

So are we totally done paying attention to European legislation? Ah, while it
would be nice for the Python community to be able to cross a few things off
our to-do list, that’s not quite how it works. Firstly, the concept of an
“open source steward” is a brand new idea in European law. So, we will be
monitoring the conversation as this new concept is implemented or interacts
with other bits of European law to make sure that the understanding continues
to reflect the intent and the realities of open source development. Secondly,
there are some other pieces of legislation in the works that may also impact
the Python ecosystem so we will be watching the Product Liability Directive
and keeping up with the discussion around standard-essential patents to make
sure that the effects on Python and open source development are intentional
(and hopefully benevolent, or at least benign.)

Thank you to `Open Forum Europe <https://openforumeurope.org/>`_ (OFE) —
especially Ciarán O’Riordan – for bringing the FOSS community together to
share our thoughts on how the proposed text would affect open source, thinking
about how the goals of the proposed act might be achieved without
unintentionally creating a chilling effect for open source and communicating
those ideas to legislators. OFE’s work to coordinate our efforts certainly
made it easier for the PSF’s concerns to be heard and I’m fairly certain it
made it easier for legislators to assess and consider impacts to the open
source ecosystem when we were able to speak with one voice.

_*The entire Regulation is
published`here <https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-17000-2023-INIT/EN/pdf>`_,
if you want to dive into the text more deeply. _

