.. post:: 2024-01-18
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Announcing the Deputy Developer in Residence and the Supporting Developer in Residence
======================================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/01/announcing-deputy-developer-in.html>`_.

We’re very happy to welcome Petr Viktorin as the Deputy Developer in
Residence! Better yet, he is joined by Serhiy Storchaka as the Supporting
Developer in Residence. This transforms the residency program into a full
blown team! We couldn’t be happier.  
  
It’s exciting to be able to begin to realize the full vision of the Developers
in Residence program, with special thanks to Bloomberg for making it possible
for us to bring Petr on board. The initial idea behind the Developer in
Residence was to have three to five people hired directly by the Python
Software Foundation to help with developer efficiency at CPython, where most
of the contributors are volunteers. Three to five people is a good amount to
allow for handling both day-to-day tasks, as well as planning and executing on
larger-scale projects.  
  
We were only able to start with a single Developer in Residence, initially
sponsored by Google for the initial year, and by Meta for the following two
years. We were `clear that adding more developers in residence would multiply
the impact of the role <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/02/the-case-for-
second-developer-in.html>`_ but, of course, the big question is funding.
Fortunately, the success of the initial one-person program allowed for a new
sponsor to participate, interested in extending the program with another
developer. Thank you, Bloomberg!  
  
We `announced <https://lukasz.langa.pl/40b601fc-2b24-4629-91d9-3b32c58365c6/>`_
the job opening back in July, and the interview process was extensive. The
Foundation received close to 100 applications, and it was a very tough
decision, as most were excellent candidates. One surprise in particular was
that despite the Deputy role being described as targeting programmers of
various experience levels, we received many more applications from Python core
developers than during the initial Developer in Residence job opening.  
  
Naturally, the core developers bubbled up in the interview process. We were
especially impressed by Petr Viktorin’s experience with maintaining Python at
Red Hat, his interest in the C API, and his long-term existing contributions
to Python. Given the transformative recent developments inside the interpreter
in terms of performance and scalability, Petr’s skillset was the perfect
match. We’re excited he accepted the offer!  
  
However, there was one more person who we were also ready to hire on the spot:
Serhiy Storchaka, a rare example of a core developer generalist, with plenty
of C experience and contributions across the entire codebase. Consistently one
of the top most prolific contributors to Python, we felt like we needed to
secure him as a member for the Residents team. Unexpectedly, a generous
anonymous donation allowed us to hire Serhiy as well. Thank you!  
  
We are calling the role the Supporting Developer in Residence to make it clear
the funding level here isn’t as high as in the Deputy case. Please contact us
if your organization can help sponsor Serhiy to bump him to the Deputy salary.
Serhiy sure deserves it!  
  
After an initial meeting with the Steering Council, the Residents team is now
ready to take on a more active role in shaping the development of the
language. The Council advised that while every team member is expected to
prioritize unblocking other contributors and keeping the developer experience
smooth, with three people on the team each Resident can now also spend a
percentage of their time on feature work aligned with their interests.  
  
There are some exciting times ahead for Python!  
  

