.. post:: 2024-04-02
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

New Open Initiative for Cybersecurity Standards
===============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/04/new-open-initiative-for-cybersecurity.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation is pleased to announce our participation in co-
starting a new `Open Initiative for Cybersecurity
Standards <https://outreach.eclipse.foundation/open-source-cybersecurity-
specifications>`_ collaboration with the Apache Software Foundation, the Eclipse
Foundation, other code-hosting open source foundations, SMEs, industry
players, and researchers. This collaboration is focused on meeting the real
challenges of cybersecurity in the open source ecosystem, and demonstrating
full cooperation with and supporting the implementation of the European
Union’s Cyber Resilience Act (CRA). With our combined efforts, we are
optimistic that we will reach our goal of establishing common specifications
for secure open source development based on existing open source best
practices.

New regulations, such as those in the CRA, highlight the need for secure by
design and strong supply chain security standards. The CRA will lead to
standard requests from the Commission to the European Standards Organisations
and we foresee requirements from the United States and other regions in the
future. As open source foundations, we want to respond to these requests
proactively by establishing common specifications for secure software
development and meet the expectations of the newly defined term Open Source
Steward.

Open source communities and foundations, including the Python community, have
long been practicing and documenting secure software development processes.
The starting points for creating common specifications around security are
already there, thanks to millions of contributions to hundreds of open source
projects. In the true spirit of open source, we plan to learn from, adapt, and
build upon what already exists for the collective betterment of our greater
software ecosystem.

The PSF’s Executive Director Deb Nicholson will attend and participate in the
initial Open Initiative for Cybersecurity Standards meetings. Later on,
various PSF staff members will join in relevant parts of the conversation to
help guide the initiative alongside their peers. The PSF looks forward to more
investment in cybersecurity best practices by Python and the industry overall.

This community-driven initiative will have a lasting impact on the future of
cybersecurity and our shared open source communities. We welcome you to join
this collaborative effort to develop secure open source development
specifications. Participate by sharing your knowledge, input, and raising up
existing community contributions. Sign up for the `Open Initiative for Process
Specifications mailing list <https://outreach.eclipse.foundation/open-source-
cybersecurity-specifications>`_ to get involved and stay updated on this
initiative. Check out the press release's from the `Eclipse
Foundation’s <https://eclipse-foundation.blog/2024/04/02/open-source-
community-cra-compliance/>`_ and the `Apache Software
Foundation <https://news.apache.org/?p=5859>`_ for more information.

