.. post:: 2024-07-17
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Announcing the 2024 PSF Board Election & Proposed Bylaw Change Results!
=======================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/07/announcing-2024-psf-board-election.html>`_.

The 2024 election for the PSF Board and proposed Bylaws changes created an
opportunity for conversations about the PSF's work to serve the global Python
community. We appreciate community members' perspectives, passion, and
engagement in the election process this year.

We want to send a big thanks to everyone who ran and was willing to serve on
the PSF Board. Even if you were not elected, we appreciate all the time and
effort you put into thinking about how to improve the PSF and represent the
parts of the community you participate in. We hope that you will continue to
think about these issues, share your ideas, and join a PSF Work Group if you
feel called to do so.

Board Members Elect
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Congratulations to our three new Board members who have been elected!  

  * Tania Allard
  * KwonHan Bae
  * Cristián Maureira-Fredes

We’ll be in touch with all the elected candidates shortly to schedule
onboarding. Newly elected PSF Board members are provided orientation for their
service and will be joining the upcoming board meeting.

PSF Bylaw Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

All three of the proposed PSF Bylaw changes are approved:  

  * `Merging Contributing and Managing member classes <https://github.com/python/psf-bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...359cbc540f2f6bf00bc46b9dbe3e00a950612c27>`_
  * `Simplifying the voter affirmation process by treating past voting activity as intent to continue voting <https://github.com/python/psf-bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...6bac449>`_
  * `Allow for removal of Fellows by a Board vote in response to Code of Conduct violations, removing the need for a vote of the membership <https://github.com/python/psf-bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...5b24dd2>`_

We appreciate the high level of engagement on the proposed Bylaw changes, and
the range of perspectives and points that were raised. We hope that our
efforts towards increased transparency, such as `the Office Hour session, and
our responses in the FAQ <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/06/faq-for-
proposed-changes-to-psf-bylaws.html>`_ helped to continue to build trust with
the community. Our goal with these changes continues to be:  

  * Making it simpler to qualify as a Member for Python-related volunteer work
  * Making it easier to vote
  * Allowing the Board more options to keep our membership safe and enforce the Code of Conduct

This announcement serves as notice that the Bylaws changes have been approved
by the membership, and will automatically go into effect 15 days from now, on
Thursday, August 1st, 2024.

Thank you!
^^^^^^^^^^

We’d like to take this opportunity to thank our outgoing board member, Débora
Azevedo, for her outstanding service. Débora served on the PSF Board through a
particularly eventful time; bringing PyCon US into an age of hybrid events,
responding to calls from our community for transparency, and hiring multiple
new staff members to continue to improve our organization. Thank you for
supporting the PSF and the Python community through so much change- you are
appreciated!  
  
Our heartfelt thanks go out to each of you who took the time to review the
candidates and submit your votes. Your participation helps the PSF represent
our community. We received 611 total votes, easily reaching quorum–1/3 of
affirmed voting members (794). We’re especially grateful for your patience
with continuing to navigate the changes to the voting process, which allows
for a valid election and a more sustainable election system.  
  
We also want to thank everyone who helped promote this year’s board election,
especially Board Members Denny Perez and Georgi Ker, who took the initiative
to cover this year’s election and produced informational videos for our
candidates. This promotional effort was inspired by the work of `Python
Community News <https://pythoncommunitynews.com/>`_ last year. We also want to
highlight the PSF staff members and PSF Board members who put in tons of
effort each year as we work to continually improve the PSF elections.  

What’s next?
^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you’re interested in the complete tally, make sure to check the `Python
Software Foundation Board of Directors Election 2024
Results <https://opavote.com/results/5004101476679680>`_ page. These results
will be available until 10 Sep 2024 at 10:00 AM EDT.

The PSF Election team will conduct a retrospective of this year’s election
process to ensure we are improving year over year. We received valuable
feedback about the process and tooling. We hope to be able to implement
changes for next year to ensure a smooth and accessible election process for
everyone in our community.

Finally, it might feel a little early to mention this, but we will have at
least 4 seats open again next year. If you're interested in running or
learning more, we encourage you to contact a current PSF Board member or two
this year and ask them about their experience serving on the board.  
  

