.. post:: 2024-07-12
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Announcing Our New PyPI Support Specialist!
===========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/07/announcing-our-new-pypi-support.html>`_.

We are thrilled to announce that our `first-ever search for a dedicated PyPI
Support Specialist <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/03/announcing-pypi-
support-specialist.html>`_ has concluded with the hire of `Maria
Ashna <https://www.thetravelingguitar.net/>`_, the newest member of the `Python
Software Foundation (PSF) staff <https://www.python.org/psf/records/staff/>`_.
Reporting to Ee Durbin, Director of Infrastructure, Maria joins us from a
background in academic research, technical consulting, and theatre.

Maria will help the PSF to support one of our most critical services, the
`Python Package Index (PyPI) <https://pypi.org/>`_. Over the past 23 years, PyPI
has seen essentially exponential growth in traffic and users, relying for the
most part on volunteers to support it. With the addition of requirements to
keep all Python maintainers and users safe, our support load has outstretched
our support resources for some time now. The Python Software Foundation
committed to hiring to increase this capacity in April and we’re excited to
have Maria on board to begin providing crucially needed support.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEiQGpPAAP5MvvslbmTukVKnZdYch87AA0ya3qoyAPFNhPncEMaeK3WidlNofLAP52lQzBnaEO7z05uH238PsqCYGy5uA8N1xFuK5sF6KaPfwSx92ZSMSSy7qr7COdNVyxeAXh4qTqzsjcqKfUqVFk8HbvYXA0lgJd9_e043s19R8n5GwjAVx6U>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEiQGpPAAP5MvvslbmTukVKnZdYch87AA0ya3qoyAPFNhPncEMaeK3WidlNofLAP52lQzBnaEO7z05uH238PsqCYGy5uA8N1xFuK5sF6KaPfwSx92ZSMSSy7qr7COdNVyxeAXh4qTqzsjcqKfUqVFk8HbvYXA0lgJd9_e043s19R8n5GwjAVx6U)

  

From Maria, _“I am a firm believer in democratizing tech. The Open Source
community is the lifeblood of such democratization, which is why I am excited
to be part of PSF and to serve this community.”_

As you see Maria around the PyPI support inbox, issue tracker, and
discuss.python.org in the future we hope that you’ll extend a warm welcome!
We’re eager to get her up and running to reduce the stress that users have
been experiencing around PyPI support and further our work to improve and
extend PyPI sustainably.

