.. post:: 2024-06-13
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

For your consideration: Proposed bylaws changes to improve our membership experience
====================================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/06/for-your-consideration-proposed-bylaws.html>`_.

_*EDIT MADE ON JUNE 27th, 2024:* A typographical error was discovered in the
GitHub link for Change 2. The link in this post reflects the actual text that
will be incorporated in the bylaws should the amendment be approved._

This year, as part of our annual election process, the Python Software
Foundation Board is offering three bylaws changes for our Members to vote on.
These changes are all centered on our membership experience: making it simpler
to qualify as a Member for Python-related volunteer work, making it easier to
vote, and allowing the Board more options to keep our membership safe and
enforce the Code of Conduct.

Voting Members will be asked to vote on these items during the July Board of
Directors election. If the majority of voting members vote in favor of any of
the changes, those changes will be incorporated into the bylaws and go into
immediate effect.

We're sharing these changes with you today as an opportunity to understand why
these changes are being proposed, and to give you an opportunity to ask
questions of the Board before you vote, either by emailing `psf-
elections@pyfound.org <mailto:psf-elections@pyfound.org>`_ or `membership-
wg@pyfound.org <mailto:membership-wg@pyfound.org>`_, or by responding to `the
thread on the PSF discussions site <https://discuss.python.org/t/for-your-
consideration-proposed-bylaws-changes-to-improve-our-membership-
experience/55696>`_.

The text of the changes are available from the following links, all of which
show visual representations of additions and deletions to our canonical bylaws
repository:

  * `Change 1: Merging Contributing and Managing member classes <https://github.com/python/psf-bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...359cbc540f2f6bf00bc46b9dbe3e00a950612c27>`_
  * `Change 2: Simplifying the voter affirmation process by treating past voting activity as intent to continue voting <https://github.com/python/psf-bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...6bac449>`_
  * `Change 3: Allow for removal of Fellows by a Board vote in response to Code of Conduct violations, removing the need for a vote of the membership <https://github.com/python/psf-bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...5b24dd2>`_

The Board has carefully considered these changes and strongly encourages all
Members to vote in favor of them. The rest of this post explains the changes,
and why we're putting them to our Voting Members.

Change 1: Merging Contributing and Managing member classes
----------------------------------------------------------

Since 2017, when we adopted our current membership model, we've had four
classes of membership: _Supporting_ (recognition for being a monetary donor),
_Managing_ (recognition for volunteer work in the PSF or in community events),
_Contributing_ (recognition for volunteer work on open source software), and
_Fellow_ (recognition of long-term service to the mission of the PSF).

For almost as long as our membership options have existed, there's been
confusion about the distinction between Managing and Contributing members.
Both require 5 hours a month of volunteer service, but the distinction between
community work and work on software is increasingly out of step with how our
community thinks about contributing.

*In the future, we want community members to qualify for PSF membership by
participating and giving back to the community, either through donating,
through volunteer work, or in recognition of long service, without
distinguishing between code contributions and non-code contributions.*

`With this proposed bylaws change, we would merge the Managing and
Contributing membership classes. <https://github.com/python/psf-
bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...359cbc540f2f6bf00bc46b9dbe3e00a950612c27>`_
All Managing Members would become Contributing Members, and we would no longer
have a Managing Member class. Further, this change would explicitly allow for
works of authorship (including documentation, books, or blogs) beyond software
to count as volunteer work, provided those works are openly licensed.

We think this would significantly simplify the membership categories, reduce
confusion, and make it easier for volunteers who both run events and write
code to decide which membership class best applies to them.

Change 2: Simplifying the voter affirmation process by treating past voting
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
activity as intent to continue voting

Our bylaws (section 4.2) require every Member to affirm their intention to
vote in an election before they can be issued a ballot. This is intended to
ensure that our election reaches a quorum (i.e. one third of ballots issued
are actually used to vote), and is therefore valid by our bylaws. Due to
technical limitations, we only started requiring this affirmation in practice
last year. Since then, we've received feedback that the affirmation process
has unintentionally excluded some people who had intended to vote.

*It is the Board's intention that we make it as easy as possible to vote in
our elections, however, we must balance legal obligations that require us to
maintain a quorum in our elections.*

`This bylaws change would allow us to treat any member who voted in the
immediately previous year's election as having affirmed their intention to
vote <https://github.com/python/psf-
bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...6bac449>`_. The Board
believes that voting in a PSF election is a good indicator that a member is
likely to vote again, and including them in the quorum calculation is unlikely
to put our quorum at risk.

While there may be technical limitations to us implementing this change, the
change is necessary to allow the Foundation to alter the affirmation procedure
at all. It is the Board's intention that this change would be implemented for
the 2025 election should the Bylaws change be accepted by the membership
during the 2024 election.

Change 3: Allow for removal of Fellows by a Board vote in response to Code
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
of Conduct violations, removing the need for a vote of the membership

Currently PSF Fellows are awarded membership for life, as a reward for
exceptional service to the mission of the Foundation. There are deliberately
very few ways to remove a Fellow from the membership.

If a Fellow were found to have violated the Foundation's `Code of
Conduct <https://policies.python.org/python.org/code-of-conduct/>`_ in a way
that warranted termination of their membership, currently the only way to
remove them would be to put their removal to a vote of all Voting Members (per
section 4.15 of our Bylaws). We believe that requiring a vote of the
membership to remove a Code of Conduct violator from our community would
subject members of the community --- including people directly impacted by
that violator's behavior --- to undue distress.

On the other hand, we believe there is significant legal risk that could arise
from Code of Conduct violators known to the PSF using their status as a PSF
Fellow to enhance their reputation. In cases where the Foundation needs to act
in order to continue being able to serve the Python community effectively, we
currently have no choice but to name a known Code of Conduct violator as part
of a vote put to the membership.

*In practice, this requirement limits our ability to effectively enforce our
Code of Conduct. This is a disservice to our community.*

`This proposed change gives the Board, by a majority vote, the ability to
terminate the membership of a Fellow as a consequence of breaching any written
policy of the Foundation, specifically including our Code of
Conduct <https://github.com/python/psf-
bylaws/compare/a35a6071de181adbb7a160d5d1447e7b0272359c...5b24dd2>`_. This
change would allow the Board to act in cases where there is a clear need for a
problematic community member to no longer be affiliated with the Foundation,
without further perpetuating the trauma caused by that community member's
actions.

