.. post:: 2024-06-25
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

FAQ for Proposed Changes to PSF Bylaws
======================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/06/faq-for-proposed-changes-to-psf-bylaws.html>`_.

As part of the PSF Board Election, there are `three proposed changes to the
PSF Bylaws <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2024/06/for-your-consideration-
proposed-bylaws.html>`_ which will be on the upcoming ballot. We have received a
significant amount of feedback relating to proposed change #3 (allowing for
the removal of Fellows by a majority vote of the Board of Directors). We have
been working on a response, which has taken us some time because we want to be
as transparent as possible, and there have been many questions raised over the
last week or so. Thank you for voicing feedback and your patience with us
while we worked on our response.  
  
Please keep in mind that as we are the group who is responsible for the health
of the Foundation, we need to be conscious about our statements. There may be
direct consequences for our words, and some of the specifics are legally
privileged.  
  
The broad categories of questions we’ve included are about the importance of
this change, alternatives that were considered and rejected, how the Board is
structured against abuse of this change, and a few general questions.  
  
If your specific question isn’t answered here, please join the PSF Board
Election Bylaws Office Hour session on Thursday June 27th at 1PM UTC in the
`#psf-elections channel on the PSF Discord <https://discord.gg/XZRseGBpwb>`_.
You can also email your questions to either psf-elections@pyfound.org or
membership-wg@pyfound.org or by responding to the `For your consideration:
Proposed bylaws changes to improve our membership experience
thread <https://discuss.python.org/t/for-your-consideration-proposed-bylaws-
changes-to-improve-our-membership-experience/55696/1>`_ on the PSF Discuss
forum.  
  
We hope that our transparency, the Office Hour session, and our responses in
the FAQ below encourage you to vote in favor of all three of the proposed
Bylaw changes.  
  
With thanks,  
  
\- The PSF Board of Directors



Importance of a measure like this  
-----------------------------------




Q: Why is this even necessary? What kind of legal advice did you ask for?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* The Board has a responsibility to act in the interests of the
Foundation. Our legal counsel has advised us of a possibility where knowingly
allowing a bad actor to continue to operate with our implied endorsement would
open us up to certain kinds of liability. Our Bylaws do not currently have a
mechanism for revoking the Fellow designation, and this change is intended to
close that gap.  
  
The text of all three Bylaws changes were proposed or vetted by our legal
counsel, and we are confident that the text as proposed allows us to act
according to the intent we described in our original post.

Q: Is this in response to a specific event?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* The Board needs to balance transparency with our duty to act in the
best interest of the Foundation. We can’t discuss any events that would
hypothetically lead to removing a Fellow, or even whether there have even been
any events that would warrant a removal, because releasing details — or even
the existence — of investigations where we failed to remove a fellow would
open us up to the possibility of liability.



Q: Does the Board stand by this amendment? Was this a majority or a unanimous
decision?  

*A:* The board voted unanimously in favor of this amendment, 10 in favor, 0
against, 0 abstentions. While the Bylaws do not allow proxy votes to be
formally counted, both Board members who could not attend the meeting also
explicitly registered their support for the amendment with other Board
members.  

Q: Why can’t we publicly discuss Fellows who have received complaints and
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
decide together as a community?  

*A:* Some people will not make Code of Conduct reports if they are likely to
go to a large public discussion or are unlikely to be acted on. The current
lifelong nature of the Fellow designation has created a special group of
people who are functionally exempt from the effects of the Code of Conduct.  

Q: Does the Board retain legal counsel?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* Even though there is no longer a full-time General Counsel as part of
the Board of Directors, the PSF retains legal counsel. Legal advice was
sought, provided, and followed as part of this amendment process.  

Q: How do changes to the Bylaws work?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* The PSF’s Bylaws define the legal structure of the Foundation, the
Membership, and how the organization is governed. If an aspect of Membership
or the Board’s ability to make decisions needs to be changed, the Bylaws need
to be changed. This usually happens by discussion amongst the Board, working
groups, or even directly from the Membership, resulting in a proposal to amend
the Bylaws.  
  
To change the Bylaws, the Board must vote on a proposed amendment, and then
the Membership usually has the opportunity to vote to approve those changes.
As an organization that represents a diverse community, we strongly value the
consent and community buy-in that comes from a vote.  
  
There are other ways to change the bylaws, including not seeking Member
approval, or by Membership seeking Bylaws changes without Board approval, but
these have never been used.  

Alternatives considered and rejected  
--------------------------------------




Q: Why does this only require a majority vote, not a supermajority?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* This amendment as written already requires a higher standard than most
business the Board handles. It requires a majority of the full Board of
Directors, not merely a majority of the quorum (as is otherwise required in
Section 5.8).  
  
With the current size of the Board, a majority is 7 Directors, and a
supermajority (two thirds) is 8. The Board would be open to amending the
requirements to a supermajority in the future, but we wish to highlight how
small the difference would be in practice.  

Q: Why does this not require a unanimous vote?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* A unanimous vote requirement would create scope for abuse. A unanimous
vote requirement would allow for a single dissenting Director to prevent the
removal of a problematic Fellow, opening the Foundation to liability.  
  
In certain cases, that liability could extend to individual Directors, even
those who voted to remove the Fellow, simply because the action failed to pass
due to one dissenting vote (subject to the provisions of Article XII “Limits
on Liability of Directors”).  
  
This personal liability would be a significant barrier to many community
members' willingness to serve on the Board.  

Protections against misuse  
----------------------------




Q: Why does the Board need to act responsibly?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* The Board needs to act in the service of the Foundation’s mission, and
has a responsibility to the community to keep vital infrastructure like PyPI
running, providing fiscal sponsorship to community groups like PyLadies
chapters, or giving grants to international communities.  
  
Acting against the interests of the membership would cause the community to
lose trust in us, and threaten our ability to keep Python’s infrastructure
running.  

Q: What protections are available to prevent the Board from misusing this
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
provision?  

*A:* This proposed Bylaws amendment requires a Member to fail a “condition
of membership” to be removed. Such a condition would need to have been
previously enacted by the Board and would apply to any Member in that class of
Membership. This prevents the Board from removing a Member arbitrarily.  
  
The Membership regularly holds the Board accountable through annual elections.
Should there be an immediate need to act, the Membership can call a special
meeting of the Board or the Membership and hold the Board to account. The
proposed change allows a removed Member 15 business days before their removal
is final, during which time they can use the tools available to hold the Board
to account.  
  

Q: What if a future board becomes controlled by a large group of
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
untrustworthy and like-minded people?  

*A:* The Board is elected in cohorts, such that usually only 3-4 seats are
open each year. Any “hostile takeover” would need to be conducted over the
course of a few years and could not be engineered by any company or other
formal entity because we already have rules preventing Board capture in `our
Bylaws <https://www.python.org/psf/bylaws/>`_ (section 5.15).  
  
“No more than one quarter (1/4) of the members of the Board of Directors may
share a common affiliation.”  

Other questions  
-----------------




Q: Why does this offer the possibility of covering non-Code of Conduct
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
policies?  

*A:* The Amendment gives the Board the right to add other qualifications to
membership, and the Bylaws do not prevent the Board from amending the Code of
Conduct (`and we have done so multiple times
before <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/09/the-python-software-foundation-
has_24.html>`_). If we were to change the Bylaws such that the only policy that
allowed us to remove members was the Code of Conduct, this would have the
perverse effect of incentivizing the Board to amend the Code of Conduct to
cover other cases where removing a Member may be a necessity. This would make
the Code of Conduct too long, complicated, and unfocused to be effective in
the cases where it is already used.  

Q: Why did the Board single out Fellows in the announcement?  
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*A:* It is true that the amended text covers all classes of Membership,
however, in practice the only truly new ability granted to the board is being
able to remove Fellows.  
  
The text of the Bylaws already grants mechanisms that could allow the Board to
make Members in other classes ineligible for Membership, including the ability
to set “alternate eligibility criteria” (section 4.6-4.7) beyond those in the
Bylaws or an “applicable membership fee” (section 4.5). The only class of
membership for which there is no way to restrict eligibility on existing
Members are the Fellows, who are granted life membership, except if they are
removed by a vote of the Membership. This amendment makes it possible to
remove Members, no matter which class, using the same tools.  

Q: Who comprises the Code of Conduct Work Group? Is it diverse? Are they
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
accepting new members?  

*A:* The current membership and the past members of the Conduct Work Group
are listed in the charter which can be found on the `Code of Conduct Work
Group Charter page <https://wiki.python.org/psf/ConductWG/Charter>`_. The group
consists of diverse representatives from around the world. The charter lists
the process for applying to join the Work Group.  

