.. post:: 2010-06-21
   :tags: organization, post, volunteer, board, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PSF Officers for 2010
=====================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2010/06/psf-officers-for-2010.html>`_.

The 2010-2011 Board of Directors for the PSF has appointed officers to oversee
activities of the Foundation.

Returning Officers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Guido van Rossum returns as President of the PSF. As President, Guido serves
as the principal representative of the Foundation.

Steve Holden is Board Chair. He is responsible for organizing and presiding
over all Board meetings and keeping the Foundation focused on fulfilling its
mission.

Van Lindberg will serve as PyCon Chair again this year. Van manages all of the
activities related to running `PyCon US <http://us.pycon.org/>`_, including
organizing the volunteer and paid efforts.

Most officers are volunteers from the community, but there are two paid
positions on the Board. The Secretary and Treasurer both require regular and
timely activity in order to keep up with their duties, so nominal compensation
is provided for these officers to make that possible.

Pat Campbell is Secretary, and keeps all of the records of the Foundation. She
also prepares the minutes of the Board meetings and delivers formal notices,
for example before the start of official voting periods.

Kurt Kaiser continues as Treasurer. Kurt manages the finances of the PSF,
receiving income and making payments. He reports the financial status of the
Foundation to the members regularly through the members' mailing list.

New Roles
^^^^^^^^^

In addition to the traditional organizational roles, the Board is working to
identify other areas where focused attention is needed and appoint officers to
oversee them. Positions for overseeing Membership, Voting, and other areas are
planned but not yet filled.

As Communications Director, Doug Hellmann is responsible for publishing
information from the Board, with priority given to any actions taken at Board
meetings. He will also be helping to connect other members of the community
with information channels to publicize the work they are doing.

More Information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  * `PSF Board Responsibilities <http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonSoftwareFoundation/DutiesAndResponsibilitiesOfDirectors>`_
  * `PSF Bylaws <http://www.python.org/psf/bylaws/>`_, including the duties of each officer.
  * `Board history <http://www.python.org/psf/records/board/history/>`_

