.. post:: 2015-04-28
   :tags: diversity, post, advocacy, outreach, education, events, South America, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Highly Contagious: Python Spreads through South America!
========================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/04/highly-contagious-python-spreads.html>`_.

As you may recall, I previously posted about a wonderful project in South
America that has been funded in part by the PSF. That first blog post
described the Python events that Manuel Kaufmann had organized in Argentina
and his plans to move on to Paraguay and then Bolivia. Please check it out at
`Python in Argentina <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/03/manuel-kaufmann-and-
python-in-argentina.html>`_.

I’m very happy to report that Manuel Kaufmann has continued to be busy
bringing Python events and knowledge to more and more people, as he left
Argentina for Paraguay. He recently reached out to us to tell about his
experiences. Here's a recap:

First of all, PyDay Asunción took place as scheduled on March 28th. This event
was the culmination of Manuel’s efforts in creating the brand new "Python
Paraguay" community. His Paraguayan adventure began by meeting with people
from different Software Libre groups (PHP, OpenStreetMap, Sugar, Google Code
In, etc) in an attempt to "merge" them into a new community focussed on
Python. Their first meeting had 13 attendees who immediately began organizing
for PyDay Asunción.

This first PyDay (or mini-conference) in Paraguay was a great success. Over
100 people with varying levels of programming and Python skill attended.
Manuel was pleased to report that among the presenters were a 17 year old boy
and a young woman–clearly the diversity of our community is growing
demographically as well as geographically. In addition, the importance of this
event was marked by the Paraguayan government, who declared PyDay Asunción an
official "Technology and Cultural Event." Congratulations to Manuel and
everyone who worked to make this a reality.You can read more about the day (in
Spanish) at `Manuel’s own blog
post <http://elblogdehumitos.com.ar/posts/pydayasuncion-un-exito-arrollador/>`_.  
  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEi-4wzWbnhUManIWvbuAhptknTl7KPigJmf-X4PR-
bvAcXpc2pga7idQ9oRtpjqr2-6hy5Ccf8f2sZPRayhRs8oUpIY1dmqIWqFK3zCahzsYUF_ZO7RIaR4Ql0p9srrJOVWWyY/s1600/foto-
grupalArgentina.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEi-4wzWbnhUManIWvbuAhptknTl7KPigJmf-X4PR-
bvAcXpc2pga7idQ9oRtpjqr2-6hy5Ccf8f2sZPRayhRs8oUpIY1dmqIWqFK3zCahzsYUF_ZO7RIaR4Ql0p9srrJOVWWyY/s1600/foto-
grupalArgentina.jpg)

PyDay Asunción

Of course, as before, the momentum didn’t stop at one event. With a new
community formed, new events were bound to occur. It always amazes me the way
hard work and a good idea will grow. In fact, Manuel reported that some of the
attendees of last month’s PyDay Formosa, Argentina were so enthused that they
travelled 400 km to attend and help out at PyDay Paraguay. That kind of
passion and commitment says a lot about the quality of these events and the
desire for more. Perhaps Python is contagious!

Similarly, Manuel tells us that a talk at PyDay Paraguay gave rise to another
event: "HACKÁra Asuka Guaraní": an event to translate the Sugar platform to
Guaraní. This event was organized by Ricardo Saucedo and Martín Abente (one of
the members of Python Paraguay). In fact, the idea of this event came out of
Martin’s talk at PyDay Asunción. There were around 15 teenagers including 6
girls and a teacher who helped with the translation into their native
language. According to Manuel, this potentially could lead to many people who
don't speak Spanish being able to learn programming.  
  
Manuel has no intention of slowing down. Although his original plan was to
spend three months on the project, he hasn’t yet made it to Bolivia, so he’s
going to extend his time commitment. One problem he’s having is with his car.
Apparently it needs quite a bit of TLC to keep it going. If you’d like to help
with that, Manuel is accepting donations at `Manuel’s
Project <http://elblogdehumitos.com.ar/pages/argentina-en-
python/donaciones/misiones/>`_. Since a little goes a long way to keep a car
running, I hope you'll join me in giving him the cost of a latte or two.  
  
In any case, his project appears unstoppable, with many future events either
completely set to go or in the planning stages. The following events are
already scheduled for May:

  * `PyDay at Apóstoles Misiones, Argentina on 7 May <http://pydayapostoles.info/>`_
  * 20-22 May - Educational Track for secondary students at SciPy LA 2015, Posadas, Misiones, Argentina (<http://scipyla.org/conf/2015/>)
  * PyDay at Encarnación, Misiones, Paraguay on 30 May.

In addition, Manuel has some exciting ideas for future projects, such as
creating a Robot Course for kids, and bringing Facundo Batista (one of the
best Argentinian Python hackers) to Asunción, Paraguay to develop a 3-days
course. These are in the early planning stages, but if I know Manuel, I think
we can look forward to hearing about their successful completion in the
future.  

If you’d like to follow Manuel’s travel plans, or provide some support, please
visit his `website <http://elblogdehumitos.com.ar/pages/argentina-en-
python/donde-esta-humitos/>`_.  
  

_I would love to hear from readers. Please send feedback, comments, or blog
ideas to me at  `msushi@gnosis.cx <mailto:msushi@gnosis.cx>`_._

