.. post:: 2015-02-22
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PSF Community Service Award goes to Django Girls
================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/02/psf-community-service-award-goes-to.html>`_.

Last week the PSF Board passed the following resolution:

_“RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the 4th Quarter 2014
Community Service Awards to Ola Sitarska and Ola Sendecka for their work
creating and growing Django Girls, an educational program which has reached
more than half a dozen countries, and continues to grow to many more.”_

Django Girls was founded by Ola Sitarska and Ola Sendecka as a workshop for
about 20 people at EuroPython 2014 in Berlin. According to the `Django Girls
Website <http://djangogirls.org/>`_,

_"Django Girls is a non-profit organization that empowers and helps women to
organize free, one-day programming workshops by providing tools, resources and
support."_

I asked Ola Sitarska for her reaction to receiving the PSF award and she
responded:

_"Receiving the Community Service Award was a wonderful surprise and amazing
honor. I never expected that to happen and I couldn't be more grateful for all
the support me and Ola received from the Python community while working on
Django Girls."_

She also gave me some additional background on their extraordinary growth and
future plans.

_"So far, we've taught Python and Django to 670 women in places like Germany,
Poland, Uganda, Kenya, Ukraine, Taiwan, Australia, United States, and many
more.  All attendees were complete beginners in the world of technology, but a
couple of them are already working as Django Developers, taking an active role
in Python and Django communities. This year we hope to grow even more, develop
new open source teaching materials and setup a Django Girls non-profit
organization based in US. You can help us make it happen by becoming a Django
Girls Patron."_

The PSF isn't the only organization that has recognized the significant
contribution made by Django Girls. Last year they were honored with the Django
Software Foundation's `"Malcolm Tredinnick Memorial
Prize" <https://www.djangoproject.com/weblog/2014/oct/11/dsf-announces-
winner-2014-malcolm-tredinnick-memor/>`_.

I'm also very happy to report that the Django Girls will be bringing their
one-day workshop to PyCon 2015 in Montreal on April 9: `PyCon Montreal 2015
Django Girls Workshop <http://pycon.blogspot.com/2015/01/django-girls-
workshop-pycon-2015.html>`_. In addition, there will be workshops all over the
world next year. See `Django Girls.org <http://djangogirls.org/>`_ for the full
schedule of cities and to find out how to become a Django Girls Patron.

For those unable to attend a workshop, Django Girls also provides a free
online `tutorial <http://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/index.html>`_ that has been
used by more 30,000 people. I, myself, as a novice programmer, have taken it
and found it to be extremely understandable, effective, and fun.

A hearty congratulations and thank you to this terrific organization!

