.. post:: 2015-01-19
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

2014 Year in Review
===================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/01/2014-year-in-review.html>`_.

Happy New Year from the PSF!
============================




2014 was an eventful year for the Python community, and so we thought a brief
rundown of highlights from last year should put us all in the right frame of
mind to make 2015 an equally, or even more, productive year. There was so much
activity in 2014, that it will take the next couple of blog posts to cover it
all, so today's post will focus on membership growth, PSF funding, and
conferences.

In 2014 the PSF revised the membership rules, creating a new category of
"Basic Membership." We now have over 2000 Basic Members in addition to our
Sponsoring, Supporting, Contributing, and Managing Members and Fellows. The
community has also grown on social media, with followers totaling more than
100K on Facebook, 91K on Google+, and 41K on Twitter.

This increased inclusivity is good news, since the mission of the PSF is to
promote the use and knowledge of Python. The more, the merrier. However, this
does not mean a dilution of the power and quality of the language or of the
community of users. Rather, this is a recognition of the necessity and value
of Pythonistas at all levels of technical mastery—from core developers,
through daily professional users, through occasional users, to hobbyists, to
anyone who believes computer technology and literacy is and will continue to
be the intellectual currency of the 21st century, and that open-source, freely
available, non-proprietary access to the way the world works is important.

2014 also saw an explosion of Python-related events and conferences around the
world. The PSF was delighted to fund many conferences.  In total, $78,853.41
USD was given for conference scholarships and $11,270.37 went to workshops.
The list includes _Django Weekend_ , _PyCon Philippines_ , _Python FOSDEM_  in
Brussels, _PyCon Australia_  in Brisbane, _PyData London_ , _PyCon Brasil_ ,
_DjangoCon Europe_ , _PyCon APAC_ , _PyCon Italia_ , _PyOhio_ , _Python Camp_
in Cologne, _SciPy_  in Austin, _PyCon Kiwi_  in Wellington, _PyCon Russia_ ,
_PyData Berlin_ , _PyCon ES_ , _PyCon Japan_ , _PyConZA_ , _Python Argentina_
, _PyTexas_ , and in NYC, both _PyGotham_  and _PyData_.

In support of the PSF's commitment to education and diversity, we also
sponsored programs including _Bangalore PyLadies' Introduction to Python
Workshop_ , _Gnome Outreach Program for Women Summer Internship_ , the _Kivy
Contest_ , _Young Coders_  in Nashville Public Schools and at _PyTennessee_ ,
and _UNB Saint John Department of Computer Science Python Game Programming
Camp_. The PSF also gave a grant enabling 20 teachers to attend _PyCon UK_ ,
funded _Django Girls  _all around the world (at _EuroPython_ , and in Warsaw,
Budapest, Edinburgh, Uganda, Krakow, and Kampala), _Code Chix_  in the Bay
area, _Cyberjutsu Girls Academy_ , _Geek Girls Carrots_ , and _Teen Python
Camp_  in Peru.

Additional grants allowed Python programming projects, education, and
conference attendance to become reality for many more Pythonistas. If you know
of someone(s) deserving and desiring of financial assistance in order to
attend a conference, or otherwise participate, let us know. We have limited
resources, but these resources exist for the purpose of advancing the mission
of the PSF—and that means helping you in your Python endeavors.

And, of course, April's PyCon 2014 in Montreal was a great success. More on
this next time.

P.S If you are not yet a member of the PSF, you can sign up at the `python.org
website <https://www.python.org/psf-landing/>`_. And be sure to visit the
`Python Events Calendar <https://www.python.org/events/python-events>`_ to keep
current on what's happening and to post your organization's events.

