.. post:: 2015-03-05
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Hyperion Development Awarded Fourth PSF grant
=============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/03/hyperion-development-awarded-fourth-psf.html>`_.

Today’s blog is about another African educational project that the PSF has
recently funded.

`Hyperion Development <http://www.hyperiondev.com/>`_, a South African based
company, has been providing online training in web development and programming
`Python
Courses <https://www.dropbox.com/s/10gaf6xqr09kc4f/Training%20Brochure%20-%20Python%20Courses%202015.pdf?dl=0/>`_,
as well as in-person training and workshops in specific IT topics, to people
around the world. Hyperion offers free courses to students, many of whom are
unable to take formal computer science courses and others who wish or need to
supplement their formal Computer Science studies. Hyperion also provides
workshops and courses for businesses and professionals. They are currently the
largest non-university trainer of Python in South Africa.

According to their founder and director `Riaz
Moola <http://www.rmoola.com/port.html>`_,

_Over 3500 full-time university and high school students have completed free
training courses in C++/Python/Java/ programming and Computer Science topics
with Hyperion. Students from over 80% of all tertiary institutions in South
Africa take our courses, with approximately 54% of these students studying for
full-time Computer Science degrees._

Hyperion’s courses are run on the Python-powered _Virtual Learning
Environment_ , which was developed with the help of a PSF grant awarded in
2013. The `_Hyperion
Portal_ <http://www.hyperiondev.com/moocadmin/portal_overview/>`_, a platform
built entirely by South Africans, is used to deliver their Massive Open Online
Courses, which are 100% free to full-time students. In addition, Hyperion
helps students and IT professionals find jobs through their `Referrals
Program <http://www.hyperiondev.com/moocadmin/referrals/>`_.

Currently, Hyperion’s Cape Town team is attempting to expand further by
offering free Python training to students at the University of Cape Town. They
have also conducted teacher training events, most recently in Cape Town at the
_2014 Department of Education Western Cape Teachers Conference_.

Their excellent work has earned them three previous grants from the PSF since
2013. How Hyperion advances the PSF’s mission is evident from a recent remark
made by PSF Director and Co-Chair of the Outreach & Education Committee, David
Mertz:

_The reality of the world is that not everyone can gain admission to, nor
afford to attend, elite universities. It is my belief, and the belief of the
PSF, that computer literacy today has a status increasingly similar to natural
language literacy, and should be a skill and capability that all people obtain
and have access to. More advanced research in these areas in universities has
an essential role, but a basic capability is something we should strive to
universalize, not to gate with accreditation, admission procedures, strict
academic prerequisites and other requirements, etc._

The current grant will sponsor free 5-month Python training at the beginner,
intermediate, and advanced levels.

