.. post:: 2015-01-13
   :tags: conference, pycon, post, calendar, community, public relations, service, user groups, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Python Events Calendars - Please submit your 2015 events
========================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/01/python-events-calendars-please-submit.html>`_.

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

  
As some of you may know, the PSF has a team of volunteers who are maintaining
a set of central Python event calendars. We currently have two calendars in
place:  

  * `*Python Events Calendar* <https://www.python.org/events/python-events/>`_ \- meant for conferences and larger gatherings focusing on Python or a related technology (in whole or in part)

  * `*Python User Group Calendar* <https://www.python.org/events/python-user-group/>`_ \- meant for user group events and other smaller local events

The calendars are displayed on <http://pycon.org/> and also on the new
<https://python.org/> website at <https://www.python.org/events/python-
events/> and <https://www.python.org/events/python-user-group/>.  
  
You can subscribe to the calendars using iCal and RSS feeds and also embed the
calendar widgets on your sites. We have also added a Twitter feed
`@PythonEvents <https://twitter.com/PythonEvents>`_ to get immediate updates
whenever a new event is added. Please see our wiki page for details:  
  
   <https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonEventsCalendar>  
  
The calendars are open to the world-wide Python community, so you can have
local user group events, as well as regional and international conference
events added to the calendars.  
  

News
~~~~

  
Looking back on 2014, the calendars have proven to be a great tool for the
Python community to connect, with *more th**an 60 conferences* and *more
than a hundred of user group events* listed.  
  
We would therefore like to *encourage everyone to submit their 2015 events*
, so that the Python community can get a better overview over what's happening
in Python land.  
  

Adding Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  
Please see the instructions at
<https://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonEventsCalendar#Available_Calendars> for
details on how to submit an event. We've made it really easy for you: just
need to send an email to our team address using the email template we provide
for this. Thanks.  
  
___PS: Please help spread the word about the calendars - we'll all benefit
from knowing more about Python events happening around the world. Feel free to
forward this posting to your local user groups and conference teams. Thanks._

