.. post:: 2015-03-12
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

BBC launches MicroBit
=====================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/03/bbc-launches-microbit.html>`_.

This morning, PSF Fellow Nicholas Tollervey of the UK posted the following to
the PSF Members List:

_"Today the BBC announced the MicroBit (part designed by [Pythonista and
friend] Michael Sparks) -  <http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-31834927>._

_About 1 million of these small programmable devices will be given away to
11-12 year olds starting their secondary education at the start of the UK’s
next academic year in September._

_Students will use the devices to learn programming and to create games.
Python is one of the three languages that work with the device._

_The PSF is involved in helping to generate community sourced Python resources
for the project and we hope the MicroBit will be a big part of PyconUK’s
education track (taking place at the end of September)._

_In addition to the BBC article above, the Guardian gives a good summary and
mentions the PSF here:_

_<http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/mar/12/bbc-micro-bit-raspberry-
pi>_

_I have an alpha-version of the device sitting on my desk and my impression is
that kids will have a  lot of fun. Think Pythonic blinkenlights, buttons,
bluetooth and IO."_

`![ <http://cdni.wired.co.uk/1240x826/k_n/Micro%20bit.jpg>`_](http://cdni.wired.co.uk/1240x826/k_n/Micro%20bit.jpg)

Image credit wired.co.uk

  

BBC director-general Tony Hall, speaking at the program’s launch, had this to
say: "_The BBC, our partners and everyone involved want this to be a defining
moment for digital creativity, and a vital one for our country’s digital
economy."_

The MicroBit is not intended to compete with other devices. In fact, The
Raspberry Pi Foundation is involved in creating learning content for the
device, and the final version of the MicroBit will be able to connect via
Bluetooth with Raspberry Pis and other computers, including Kano and Arduino.
One goal is to teach children to write code in collaboration with others, so
interconnectivity will be important.

According to the BBC article, the initiative to increase computer skills among
UK school children is motivated by need, "_with 1.4 million  "digital
professionals" estimated to be needed over the next five years." _To answer
this need, the _Make it Digital Initiative_  is a group effort, involving
approximately 50 other organizations including Microsoft, Google, Code Club,
and the PSF.

A list of other `participating
organizations <http://www.bbc.co.uk/mediacentre/mediapacks/makeitdigital/partnerships>`_
can be seen here, along with Nicholas' statement explaining the PSF’s
participation:

_"Education is a fundamental aspect of the continuing development of the
Python programming language. The Python Software Foundation (PSF) and wider
Python programming community fully support BBC Make it Digital’s efforts to
encourage, engage and inspire the programmers of tomorrow. The Micro Bit is a
fuse to ignite an explosion in digital creativity and we’re delighted to be a
partner in such Python programming pyromania."_

