.. post:: 2015-04-30
   :tags: diversity, post, outreach, education, non-profit, Africa, edu-sig, python, community, PSF, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

South African Brothers and Sisters for Python
=============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/04/south-african-brothers-and-sisters-for.html>`_.

Today’s post is a follow-up to a previous post about a PSF funded project by
`Hyperion Development <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/03/hyperion-
development-awarded-fourth-psf.html>`_ in South Africa.

The PSF has recently heard from Riaz Moola about his latest project–working
with `Brothers For All <http://www.brothersforall.org/>`_ to deliver Python
courses in 42 prisons–including eight female corrections facilities–in the
Western Cape.

_Brothers_  is run by an ex-con, Sihle Tshabalala, who taught himself to code
online. When he got out of prison, he wanted to do something to slow the
recidivism rate of South African ex-convicts. Not only does South Africa have
the world’s eighth highest prison population, but the rate of re-offenders is
over 80%. In addition, an extremely high `unemployment rate of
25% <http://www.tradingeconomics.com/south-africa/unemployment-rate>`_ adds to
the hopelessness felt by those with prison records and without marketable
skills.

_Brothers_  began last September by opening a center in a Western Cape
township area. There, ex-cons and at-risk youth come to learn coding skills,
entrepreneurship, and marketable crafts.

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhBMLYoQBkpdBnOx7RpeSfCCWnUZlMW_SkrxWSAT9nhc5PY_HKwN26WFC_VBb-
VviH0TCHVdTj2WuHjTMT5pSKZlRBmUIkgiIt1FhmqrFK1weBhrkkKrlDNJCh0JUxoJx83DtM/s1600/Brothers-
for-
all.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhBMLYoQBkpdBnOx7RpeSfCCWnUZlMW_SkrxWSAT9nhc5PY_HKwN26WFC_VBb-
VviH0TCHVdTj2WuHjTMT5pSKZlRBmUIkgiIt1FhmqrFK1weBhrkkKrlDNJCh0JUxoJx83DtM/s1600/Brothers-
for-all.jpg)

According to Tshabalala,

> “We chose coding because it leapfrogs over the need for more conventional,
> expensive and time consuming job skills training… Plus there currently is a
> high demand in the market for such skilled labour.”

They have recently been given approval by the provincial government to take
the program into 42 prisons in the Western Cape. This way, prisoners can gain
skills while incarcerated so that they are ready for employment immediately
upon release.

The ambitious scope of this program caused _Brothers_  to partner up with
_Hyperion_. While _Brothers_  will focus on getting the programs into the
prisons and more township areas, _Hyperion_  will provide course content.

_Hyperion’s_  main concerns at this point are logistical and for long-term
sustainability. As Riaz told the PSF, there are many challenges specific to
South Africa; for example, for four hours every day there is a power blackout,
which obviously poses a problem for internet connectivity. In addition, South
Africa has the highest data costs of any country in the world. Travel for
tutors and volunteers is also very expensive. And then, of course, there’s the
poverty and its inevitable expression in crime. Sadly, one of the project’s
computer labs was recently burglarized, resulting in the loss of equipment.
But _Brothers_  also has support streams, so they are currently receiving
donations to make up for the loss. In future, they plan to purchase laptops,
which can be more easily secured.

_Hyperion_  has been able to achieve a solid team of Python instructors. With
the help of the PSF and other institutions, _Hyperion_ is able to pay the
travel and data costs for their volunteers. This has allowed them to be very
selective; their instructors must pass tests of their technological and
teamwork skills. Even so, Riaz tells us, they are never at a loss for
instructor applicants.

The Cape Town team, led by _Hyperion_ manager Sobane Motlomelo (a Master’s
degree student at University of Cape Town), will be primarily responsible for
handling the prison project. Sobane's team has recently accepted four new
members, and Riaz is confident of their ability. This is good news for Riaz,
who began _Hyperion_  as an experiment when he was an undergraduate, then saw
it "spiral" into something very large, to which he has been giving all his
time. Currently he’d like to step back just a bit. Our congratulations to him
on being offered a Google internship!

More info on this remarkable program can be found at its `twitter
page <https://twitter.com/brothersforall/>`_ and
`htxt.africa <http://www.htxt.co.za/2015/03/26/can-teaching-sa-prisoners-to-
code-reduce-the-number-of-repeat-offenders/>`_.

_I would love to hear from readers. Please send feedback, comments, or blog
ideas to me at  `msushi@gnosis.cx <mailto:msushi@gnosis.cx>`_._

