.. post:: 2017-05-04
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Attending PyCon 2017? Consider Becoming a Sponsor!
==================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/05/attending-pycon-2017-consider-becoming.html>`_.

As PyCon approaches, we would like to invite attendees and members of our
community to join the Python Software Foundation as a sponsor. Your generous
support enables the PSF’s `mission <https://www.python.org/psf/mission/>`_ to
promote, protect, and advance the Python programming language.

*  
*

Thanks to our current sponsors, some of our recent accomplishments include:

*  
*

  * Organizing successful PyCons. Last year’s event brought together 3,388 attendees from 49 countries, a new record for PyCon! Our sponsors’ support enabled us to award $94,000.00 USD in financial aid to 142 attendees who would not otherwise have been able to attend. This year we were able to  expand upon our financial aid by awarding $111,653.00 USD to 194 attendees.

  * Hiring more `staff <https://www.python.org/psf/members/>`_. In addition to adding more blog writers to keep the public aware of the most recent `PSF news <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/>`_, we have added an IT Manager to help maintain our growing infrastructure, as well as an additional accountant to deal with the high demand of requests for financial support from all over the world.

  * Funding great projects. So far this year we have approved $70,000.00 USD in grants to over 60 events. At this rate 2017 will surpass last year’s total of $265,000.00 USD in grants to 137 events in 45 different countries.

  * Acknowledging awesome Python contributors. Community Service Awards are given out quarterly, honoring individuals who support our mission. Read about recent CSA recipients on `our blog <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/>`_.

  * Implementing a Python Ambassador program. This program provides funding for ambassadors to travel locally to perform Python outreach. This is currently in trial mode in South America and is going very well. If the trend continues, we will expand this program to additional locales. 

*  
*

We plan to continue our efforts in the coming years by developing fiscal
sponsorship support for Python projects, implementing a Customer Relationship
Management system to better communicate with individual PSF members, and
continuing to support Python programmers worldwide.

*  
*

We love to hear from happy sponsors about why they contribute to the PSF. Here
are what a few have to say:

*  
*

"ActiveState is proud to be a founding member and continued supporter of PSF.
We recognize how important Python is for developers, IT administrators and
data scientists--it continues to evolve and grow in popularity as a very
powerful language with many use cases. We're excited about its future and
helping the foundation's goal in advancing the language."

\- Bart Copeland, `ActiveState <https://www.activestate.com/activepython>`_
President & CEO

*  
*

“Sponsoring PSF brings tremendous opportunities for the entire Python
community to actively participate, connect, and engage in many meaningful
ways. It’s an opportunity to enrich the language by encouraging active
dialogue on future directions, and to nurture compelling new ideas and
projects, support the accompanying logistics and infrastructure needs, and
uphold the open source values of the community. Intel continues to foster
innovation with Python and is committed to contributing to the growth of this
vibrant ecosystem.”

\- Sonali DeSouza, Product Manager -
`Intel <http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/homepage.html>`_® Python &
Scripting tools team

*  
*

“‘Work on stuff that matters’ is one of O’Reilly’s core principles, and we
know how very much open source matters. The open source community spurs
innovation, shares knowledge, encourages growth, and creates industries. The
Python Software Foundation is a prime example of the power of open source,
showing how focused, thoughtful, and consistent efforts can create  a
community whose impact extends far beyond meetups and lines of code. O'Reilly
is proud to continue to sponsor this great foundation."

\- Rachel Roumeliotis, Strategic Content Director at
`O'Reilly <https://www.oreilly.com/>`_ and Chair of OSCON

*  
*

“Delivering digital projects in Python is the core of our business; it solves
the needs of our clients. The PSF does a fantastic job of protecting and
investing in the future of Python. Sponsoring the PSF is how we not only give
back for the past, but also protect our future.”

\- Steve Hawkes, Director, `Blanc LTD <https://www.blanc.ltd.uk/>`_

  

If you value what we do at PSF, we hope that you too will consider becoming a
sponsor. For details about PSF Sponsorship and to get started, please visit
our `Sponsors page <https://www.python.org/psf/sponsorship/>`_.

