.. post:: 2017-07-24
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

2017 Bylaw Changes
==================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/07/2017-bylaw-changes.html>`_.

The PSF has changed its bylaws, following a discussion and vote among the
voting members. I'd like to publicly explain those changes.

*  
*

For each of the changes, I will describe  1.) what the bylaws used to say
prior to June 2017 2.) what the new bylaws say and 3.) why the changes were
implemented.

*  
*

Certification of Voting Members

  * What the bylaws used to say

Every member had to acknowledge that they wanted to vote/or not vote every
year.

  * What the bylaws now say

The bylaws now say that the list of voters is based on criteria decided upon
by the board.

  * Why was this change made?

The previous bylaws pertaining to this topic created too much work for our
staff to handle and sometimes it was not done because we did not have the time
resources to do it. We can now change the certification to something more
manageable for our staff and our members.

*  
*

Voting in New PSF Fellow Members

  * What the bylaws used to say

We did not have a procedure in place for this in the previous bylaws.

  * What the bylaws now say

Now the bylaws allow any member to nominate a Fellow. Additionally, it gives
the chance for the PSF Board to create a work group for evaluating the
nominations.

  * Why was this change made?

We lacked a procedure. We had several inquiries and nominations in the past,
but did not have a policy to respond with. Now that we voted in this bylaw,
the PSF Board voted in the creation of the Work Group. We can now begin
accepting new Fellow Members after several years.

Staggered Board Terms

  * What the bylaws used to say

We did not have staggered board terms prior to June 2017. Every director would
be voted on every term.

  * What the bylaws now say

The bylaws now say that in the June election, the top 4 voted directors would
hold 3 year terms, the next 4 voted-in directors hold 2 year terms and the
next 3 voted-in directors hold 1 year terms. That resulted in:

  1. Naomi Ceder (3 yr)

  2. Eric Holscher (3 yr)

  3. Jackie Kazil (3 yr)

  4. Paul Hildebrandt (3 yr)

  5. Lorena Mesa (2 yr)

  6. Thomas Wouters (2 yr)

  7. Kushal Das (2 yr)

  8. Marlene Mhangami (2 yr)

  9. Kenneth Reitz (1 yr)

  10. Trey Hunner (1 yr)

  11. Paola Katherine Pacheco (1 yr)

  * Why was this change made?

The main push behind this change is continuity. As the PSF continues to grow,
we are hoping to make it more stable and sustainable. Having some directors in
place for more than one year will help us better complete short-term and long-
term projects. It will also help us pass on context from previous discussions
and meetings.

Direct Officers

  * What the bylaws used to say

We did not have Direct Officers prior to June 2017.

  * What the bylaws now say

The bylaws state that the current General Counsel and Director of Operations
will be the Direct Officers of the PSF. Additionally, they state that the
Direct Officers become the 12th and 13th members of the board giving them
rights to vote on board business. Direct Officers can be removed by a.) fail
of an approval vote, held on at least the same schedule as 3-year-term
directors; b) leave the office associated with the officer director position;
or c) fail a no-confidence vote.

  * Why was this change made?

In an effort to become a more stable and mature board, we are appointing two
important positions to be directors of the board. Having the General Counsel
and Director of Operations on the board helps us have more strength with legal
situations and how the PSF operates. The two new Direct Officers are:

  1. Van Lindberg

  2. Ewa Jodlowska

Delegating Ability to Set Compensation

  * What the bylaws used to say

The bylaws used to state that the President of the Foundation would direct how
compensation of the Foundationâ€™s employees was decided.

  * What the bylaws now say

The bylaws have changed so that the Board of Directors decide how employee
compensation is decided.

  * Why was this change made?

This change was made because even though we keep the president informed of
major changes, Guido does not participate in day to day operations nor
employee management. We wanted the bylaws to clarify the most effective and
fair way we set compensation for our staff.

  

We hope this breakdown sheds light on the changes and why they were important
to implement. Please feel free to contact me with any questions or concerns.

