.. post:: 2017-04-21
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Community Service Award Recipient Ian Cordasco
==============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/04/the-ego-less-developer-community.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation depends on its board of directors in order to
function. Board members are elected every year by `PSF voting
members <https://www.python.org/psf/membership/#who-is-allowed-to-vote>`_ in a
process run internally by non-board members. Ian Cordasco has been the PSF’s
Election Administrator since 2015, volunteering his efforts for this important
role. Cordasco is also a valuable member of the Python community, frequently
mentoring newer coders and supporting their Python endeavors. For these
reasons, the PSF is delighted to award the 2017 QA Community Service award to
Ian Cordasco:

*  
*  

RESOLVED that the Python Software Foundation award the 2017 Q1 Community
Service Award to Ian Cordasco for his contributions to PSF elections and
active mentoring of women in Python community.

*  
*  

PSF Elections

*  
*  

Cordasco began as the PSF’s Election Administrator during a time of turmoil.
“The first year I ran the election was something of a nightmare,” he recalls.
Due to unforeseen circumstances, the previous Election Administrator stepped
down on short notice and was unavailable to relaunch the election efforts.
“Many people did not get ballots via email as they should. Some people were
accidentally excluded from the voting rolls. Further, there was a lot of
confusion because I stepped in at the last minute.” Without the aid of
documentation and prior experience, Ian threw himself into the cause. The PSF
has since reviewed, solidified, and documented the `election
procedures <http://pyfound.blogspot.com/2015/05/new-board-election-important-
please-read.html>`_.

*  
*  

Since his dramatic start as Elections Administrator, Cordasco’s work with PSF
elections has been much smoother. Mark Mangoba, PSF’s IT Manager, works
closely with Cordasco during the election process. Mangoba notes, “Ian is a
great volunteer. He does an excellent job with the elections, assuring that
all votes are accounted for and that there is no fraud or issues of any kind.”
Cordasco has also gotten creative with how he manages elections. For example,
to reduce bias, he uses Python code to break ties and to randomize the order
in which candidates appear to voters. Additionally, those that work with
Cordasco describe him as an enjoyable collaborator. Mangoba explains, “Ian is
energetic and thoughtful. His passion and enthusiasm for the PSF shows
through, he’s always available to help and answer questions.”

*  
*  

Mentoring

*  
*  

Cordasco has a history of going out of his way to support and encourage female
developers. When `Carol Willing <https://twitter.com/WillingCarol>`_, a
developer for the Jupyter project, wanted to work on the Requests library, she
got in touch with Cordasco. “We worked together on the project and my first
commit to the Requests library got accepted!” Cordasco later wrote a fantastic
post about it on his
`blog <http://www.coglib.com/~icordasc/blog/2014/11/sending-json-in-
requests.html>`_.

*  
*  

Cordasco has also found newer coders to mentor at Python events, such as `Anna
Ossowski <https://twitter.com/OssAnna16>`_. “I met Ian at PyTennessee 2015, a
day before I was scheduled to give my very first ever conference talk. Ian’s
encouragement and support helped me a lot and it’s thanks to him and Carol
[Willing] that I had the confidence to go up on stage and deliver my talk.”
But his support didn’t stop there, Ossowski goes on to say, “every week he
would reserve an hour for me where we would program together, he would answer
questions, and just generally help me with any programming issues I
experienced. Ian helped me get the `PyLadies Remote
website <http://remote.pyladies.com/index.html>`_ up and running, something I
would have never managed without his help.”

*  
*  

`Adrienne Lowe <https://twitter.com/adriennefriend>`_, a developer at Emma, has
also enjoyed Cordasco’s support and encouragement. She recalls, “He models the
kind of developer that we all want to be in terms of being encouraging and
open.” She continues, “he sets himself apart by being genuine, welcoming, and
happy to explain anything from simple things to more complex concepts, all in
an ego-less way.”

*  
*  

The Python community as a whole is very lucky to count Cordasco as its member,
and we hope he continues to help others contribute and achieve their goals.

*  
*  
![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/uJfSHrLfdD1bM4U2N8f_Yz959kt1NRSmUN3etZzSiHAMtKMWCgeNBuhdNnWY5RobFu7UAT9z15zysgm1B-u8KznIEptGmniDq8FNrkVgMfM2R2-coIUZWhFmk2mPlMuxXq_iqCLT)  
---  
CSA 2017 Q1 Winner Ian Cordasco  
  
  

In his free time, you can find Cordasco blogging on `his
website <http://www.coglib.com/~icordasc/>`_, riding his bike, or reading books.

