.. post:: 2017-10-12
   :tags: post, community service awards, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Thomas Kluyver, Community Service Award 3rd Quarter 2017 Recipient
==================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2017/10/thomas-kluyver-community-service-award.html>`_.

People love Python for its ease of use, breadth of modules, and vibrant
community. These qualities are made possible by people like Thomas Kluyver
who, during the course of his career using Python for scientific research, has
identified and implemented various modules, upgrades, and enhancements to
Python. He is also an active member of the Python community, attending
conferences, participating in his local Python User Group, and contributing
his expertise to Python Subreddits.  
  

For these reasons, the Python Software Foundation has awarded Thomas with the
Q3 2017 Community Service Award.

  

RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation Q3 2017 Community Service Award
be given to Thomas Kluyver for his contributions to the Scientific Python
Community. Thomas has also served on many other open source projects and is
active on the Python subreddit helping many people in the Python community.

  

Contributions to Scientific Python

  

Thomas earned his Ph.D. in plant biology at the University of Sheffield in
England. As a scientist, Thomas’ interest in programming stemmed from
childhood where he learned QBasic with support from his father. During his
Ph.D. program, Thomas became a regular contributor to Jupyter/IPython, working
single-handedly to port it from Python 2 to Python 3. This caught the
attention of Fernando Pérez, creator of IPython and co-founder of Project
Jupyter, who just happened to be looking for a post-doc. “Given his amazing
contributions even while he was still a student,” says Fernando, “I was
looking for an opportunity to engage him more with the project.” Thomas
accepted the offer to work with Fernando at UC Berkeley developing IPython and
open source tools for science. Looking back Thomas recalls, “it was a great
opportunity for me.” Thomas stayed at Berkeley for 2 years before returning to
England for a position at the University of Southampton. There he continues to
work on Jupyter and IPython and is also involved in the `NGCM Summer
Academy <http://ngcm.soton.ac.uk/summer-academy>`_, teaching scientists a
variety of computational skills in Python.

  

Contributions to Other Open Source Projects

  

Thomas has worked on a number of tools outside of his profession as well, such
as `Flit <https://github.com/takluyver/flit>`_. Flit is a packaging tool which
aims to make it simpler to publish your Python code on PyPI. This tool and the
concepts it presents have led to discussions about standard interfaces for
different packaging tools to work together better, documented in PEP
`517 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0517/>`_ and
`518 <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0518/>`_. Nick Coghlan, a CPython core
developer who has worked with Thomas in his efforts to help move the Python
packaging ecosystem forward, characterizes Thomas contributions to Flit as
“rather than just writing it as a standalone tool, Thomas worked hard to
ensure that the underlying interoperability standards also evolved to make it
easier to write tools like Flit, and that such tools integrate nicely with
frontend installation tools like pip.”

  

Distributing applications to end users is still a weak point for Python,
whereas distributing libraries and developer tools have become better equipped
to handle this challenge in recent years. That is why Thomas built
`Pynsist <https://github.com/takluyver/pynsist>`_, a tool to build Windows
installers for Python applications. Pynsist can even build a Windows installer
from a Linux system, which builds on the work of other projects like
`NSIS <http://nsis.sourceforge.net/Main_Page>`_. Fernando says, “considering
that Thomas is mostly a Linux user, this is a great example of how he does
work that has great value to the Python community even beyond his immediate
needs.”

  

Contributions to the Python Community

  
Thomas is a regular speaker at Python events around the world such as SciPy,
PyData, EuroSciPy, and PyCon conferences. He is also involved in his local
Southampton Python User Group. “Basically he's all over the community,” says
Fernando, “helping others on the mailing lists, working on IPython/Jupyter,
building multiple tools of great value to many, and teaching across a variety
of spaces.” Fellow Jupyter/IPython developer and Flit collaborator Matthias
Bussonnier agrees saying, “Thomas has always cared a lot about community and
has spent hours teaching new contributors how to do things, even if it would
take him less time to do them himself.”

  

Why Python?

  
`![ <https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/HJYMMtTFtoSvwHaPbReg_lCb5X2HSJDQZlNzphrnN-4t6JXkmrTIMLPaDLeu5Tt95H-XZx_2pzr2k70lCTEiPjJhz_7Np1XkUompPJFesrYO1SrsbKKEg4lxZSjxcORQUEC-
QAUc>`_](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/HJYMMtTFtoSvwHaPbReg_lCb5X2HSJDQZlNzphrnN-4t6JXkmrTIMLPaDLeu5Tt95H-XZx_2pzr2k70lCTEiPjJhz_7Np1XkUompPJFesrYO1SrsbKKEg4lxZSjxcORQUEC-
QAUc)  
---  
`Working on the Black Python <http://blog.sotonsailrobot.org/articles/xsens-
test/>`_  
When asked why Python is his language of choice, Thomas explains, “It's a
beginners language, but it's also a language that many experienced programmers
are using to solve real problems. I also like the breadth of domains in which
Python is used and the strong open source ethos in the community around
Python.”  
  
As if Thomas has yet to prove the full breadth of Python’s domains, Thomas
recently participated in the `World Robotic Sailing
Competition <http://www.roboticsailing.org/>`_. His team entered in their model
sailboat, named the Black Python, which carries a Raspberry Pi to control the
sails and the rudder. The Black Python took first place in the 'micro
sailboat' class both this year and last. Read more about this project on their
`blog <http://blog.sotonsailrobot.org/>`_.

  

Despite these significant accomplishments, Thomas recognizes the support he
has gotten over the years recalling, “I've benefited immensely from other
people: from my father helping me to learn programming, to the IPython team
welcoming me and bringing me into the scientific Python community, to the
thousands of programmers whose open source code I've used.”  
  

| ![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/BXNlQ-
iBtbdNUg4loKpUbm5ZPiv8aKlb5mC5L_XgmCu5mmPcjjgInwTe1Jj3WrNeuOJX4ZAVGP1SeIOEdzqZczZ4fSkB_aXD87WxP3dlQzXRgrgpNWOs-
Nz6uyQHqs_jQzVhFd5k)  
---  
Community Service Award Winner 2017Q3 Thomas Kluyver  
  
  

