.. post:: 2019-03-27
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PuPPy Presents its 1st Annual Benefit featuring Guido van Rossum
================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/03/puppy-presents-its-1st-annual-benefit_27.html>`_.




PuPPy Presents its `1st Annual Benefit <http://bdfl-gift.pspython.com/>`_

  

A historic discussion of programming language creators about

the past and future of language design.

  

  




April 2, 2019, 5:30 - 9:30 PM

The Collective Seattle

400 Dexter Ave N.

Seattle, WA 98109

  

  

Featuring Language Creators

*James Gosling - Java*

*Anders Hejlsberg - Turbo Pascal, C#, TypeScript*

*Guido van Rossum - Python*

*Larry Wall - Perl*

  

Summary
~~~~~~~

  

`PuPPy <https://www.pspython.com/app/>`_, Seattle's Puget Sound Programming
Python user group, presents its 1st annual charity event. The event will
feature the creators of C#, Java, Perl, Python, and TypeScript in a
conversation about programming language design.

  

The charity event brings together this unique group of computer science
pioneers, unlike any event held before. These great minds come together for
what will surely be a fantastic night of discussion, as the panel delves into
the past and future of programming language creation. The event will attract
innovators and engineers from Seattle, the nation’s fastest growing technology
hub.

  

The event is a benefit for `CSforALL <https://www.csforall.org/>`_, a non-profit
organization that represents more than 500 members who are educators, content
providers, funders and researchers who share a vision for all students in the
U.S. to learn computer science. CSforALL provides leadership and guidance that
helps the K-12 education community implement computer science initiatives,
draw from best practices and connect with national organizations to expand
access to all students in the U.S.

  

The event follows in the spirit and culture of PuPPy, the producers of this
benefit, as an inclusive community. The very first PuPPy meeting 54 months ago
was a mini-conference that featured discussions on allyship and helping more
women join the ranks of software professionals.

  

Event tickets and further details are available at: `http://bdfl-
gift.pspython.com <http://bdfl-gift.pspython.com/>`_.




Speakers
~~~~~~~~

  

Cyrus Habib - Washington State Lieutenant Governor - Opening remarks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Cyrus Habib <http://www.ltgov.wa.gov/biography/>`_ was elected Washington
State’s 16th Lieutenant Governor in November 2016 at the age of 35. He had
previously been elected to the State House of Representatives in 2012 and the
State Senate in 2014, where he was Democratic Whip and a member of the
Democratic leadership team. As Lt. Governor, he is President of the State
Senate, serves as Acting Governor whenever Governor Inslee leaves the state,
and oversees an agency whose key issues include economic development, trade,
and higher education.

A three-time cancer survivor, Lt. Governor Habib has been fully blind since
age eight. His parents immigrated to the U.S. from Iran before he was born,
and he is the first and only Iranian-American to hold statewide elected office
in the United States.

  

Carol Willing - Moderator
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Carol Willing <https://www.willingconsulting.com/>`_ serves as a Steering
Council member for Project Jupyter. She received the 2017 ACM Software System
Award for Jupyter's development. She is also a member of the inaugural Python
Steering Council, a Python Software Foundation Fellow and former Director; a
core developer on CPython, Jupyter, nteract, AnitaB.org’s open source
projects, and PyLadies; a co-organizer of PyLadies San Diego and San Diego
Python User Group; an independent developer of hardware and software. Weaving
her love of art, music, and nature with wearable soft circuits, she is
developing an open hardware project to assist an in-home caregiver with
gentle, compassionate support of a loved one with Alzheimer’s.

  

*James Gosling - Java*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`James A. Gosling <http://nighthacks.com/jag/bio/index.html>`_, O.C., Ph.D.
(born May 19, 1955, near Calgary, Alberta, Canada) is a famous software
developer, best known as the father of the Java programming language.

  

In 1977, James Gosling received a B.Sc in Computer Science from the University
of Calgary. In 1983, he earned a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Carnegie
Mellon University, and his doctoral thesis was titled "The Algebraic
Manipulation of Constraints". While working towards his doctorate, he wrote a
version of emacs (gosmacs), and before joining Sun Microsystems he built a
multi-processor version of Unix[1] while at Carnegie Mellon University, as
well as several compilers and mail systems. Since 1984, Gosling has been with
Sun Microsystems.

  

He is generally credited as the inventor of the Java programming language in
1991. He did the original design of Java and implemented its original compiler
and virtual machine. For this achievement, he was elected to the United States
National Academy of Engineering. He has also made major contributions to
several other software systems, such as NeWS and Gosling Emacs. He also co-
wrote the "bundle" program, a utility thoroughly detailed in Brian Kernighan
and Rob Pike's book, "The Unix Programming Environment".

  

*Anders Hejlsberg - Turbo Pascal, C#, TypeScript*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Anders Hejlsberg <https://github.com/ahejlsberg>`_ is a Microsoft Technical
Fellow and has been designing and implementing programming languages and
development tools for over 35 years. Anders is the lead architect of the
TypeScript open-source project and the original designer of the C# programming
language. Before joining Microsoft in 1996, Anders was a Principal Engineer at
Borland International. As one of the first employees of Borland, he was the
original author of Turbo Pascal and later worked as the Chief Architect of the
Delphi product line. Anders studied Engineering at the Technical University of
Denmark.

  

*Guido van Rossum - Python*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Guido van Rossum  <https://gvanrossum.github.io/>`_is the creator of Python,
one of the major programming languages on and off the web. Recently Guido
retired as Benevolent Dictator For Life (“BDFL”) of Python, a title seemingly
stolen from a Monty Python skit. Details of his decision were featured in an
Economist article. Guido thankfully has joined the Python Steering Council.
This five-person group will give guidance to the future roadmap of the Python
programming language.

  

Van Rossum moved from the Netherlands to the USA, in 1995. He met his wife
after his move. Until July 2003 they lived in the northern Virginia suburbs of
Washington, DC with their son Orlijn, who was born in 2001. They then moved to
Silicon Valley where Guido worked for a variety of companies including Google
in the past and currently at Dropbox (spending 50% of his time on Python!).

*  
^^^^
*

*Larry Wall - Perl*
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Larry Wall <http://www.wall.org/~larry/>`_ was educated at various places
including the Cornish School of Music, the Seattle Youth Symphony, Seattle
Pacific University, Multnomah School of the Bible, SIL International, U.C.
Berkeley, and UCLA. Though trained primarily in music, chemistry, and
linguistics, Larry has been working with computers for the last 40 years or
so. He is most famous for writing rn, patch, and the Perl programming
language, but prefers to think of himself as a cultural hacker whose vocation
in life is to bring a bit of joy into the dreary existence of programmers. For
various definitions of “work for”, Larry has worked for Seattle Pacific,
MusiComedy Northwest, System Development Corporation, Burroughs, Unisys, the
NSA, Telos, ConTel, GTE, JPL, NetLabs, Seagate, Tim O’Reilly, the Perl
Foundation, Broadcom, and himself. He is currently serving as Artist in
Residence for Craigslist.

  

About CSforAll
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhgvWHHgFZNF7Q10ZdefWiiqo8fzL1WP1nxi9MIn-
Nep0aebjBVuNSQfmIJXFXrun6e8ywGFf8QF2G5e07xoCYekI6rSdlVLpr-ZiNlFAPyY_vl-sKwMT-
gKzlR0LhyXUTAew/s320/CSforALL-
logo.png>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhgvWHHgFZNF7Q10ZdefWiiqo8fzL1WP1nxi9MIn-
Nep0aebjBVuNSQfmIJXFXrun6e8ywGFf8QF2G5e07xoCYekI6rSdlVLpr-ZiNlFAPyY_vl-sKwMT-
gKzlR0LhyXUTAew/s1600/CSforALL-logo.png)  
---  
https://www.csforall.org/media-faq/  
  
  

`CSforALL <https://www.csforall.org/media-faq/>`_, shorthand for “Computer
Science for All,” is the central hub for the K-12 national computer science
education movement. CSforALL is the community organizer of school districts,
nonprofits, government agencies and corporations that share the goal of
rigorous, inclusive and sustainable CS education in the U.S.




About PuPPy
^^^^^^^^^^^

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEglwZX0d3dUFY3eSZf_cs7NR8_gtWvTmHK0A-BnJ9OVaYbontbwtqZdyfOjqcDYJP0f9X2zQsnLWQC4rZ_ZPrC_3At8eNx39cmx10zXnG2xzwxfxhw5D01Jj70NS0yR6xg4Qw/s1600/puppy.png>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEglwZX0d3dUFY3eSZf_cs7NR8_gtWvTmHK0A-BnJ9OVaYbontbwtqZdyfOjqcDYJP0f9X2zQsnLWQC4rZ_ZPrC_3At8eNx39cmx10zXnG2xzwxfxhw5D01Jj70NS0yR6xg4Qw/s1600/puppy.png)  
---  
https://www.pspython.com/app/  
  
  

`PuPPy <https://www.pspython.com/app/>`_ is a fun and friendly user group
dedicated to proliferating a diverse and talented Python community in the
Puget Sound region. We are devoted to exploring Python-based programming
knowledge, embracing new and experienced members from all walks of life, and
helping those members to achieve their professional goals.

  

Event Leadership
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  

`Ruthe Farmer <https://www.linkedin.com/in/ruthefarmer/>`_ – Event Chair - Chief
Evangelist for CSforALL

`Carol Willing <https://www.willingconsulting.com/>`_ – Moderator -- Steering
Council member and developer for Project Jupyter and Python

`Lorena Mesa  <http://lorenamesa.com/>`_– Vice Chair -- GitHub Data Engineer - Software Intelligence Systems | PyLadies Chicago Organizer | Python Software Foundation Director

`Eloisa Tran <https://www.linkedin.com/in/eloeliasds/>`_ \-- Fundraising Chair
-- Founder of the Women in Data Science WiDS, Data Scientist for City of
Bellevue

  

