.. post:: 2019-02-11
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

A Steady Leader of the Python Community, Alex Gaynor, Receives Community Service Award
======================================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/02/the-steady-leader-of-python-community.html>`_.

Going through the big names in the Python community, one would not likely miss
Alex Gaynor. Alex was Director of both the Python Software Foundation as well
as the `Django Software
Foundation <https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/>`_, and he is currently an
`Infrastructure Staff <https://psf-salt.readthedocs.io/overview/>`_ member of
the PSF. Overall, Alex has been a valuable member of the Python community,
contributing to the structure of the PSF on an administrative level, and
actively encouraging the growth of Python through his personal efforts.

*  
*  

For this reason, the Python Software Foundation has awarded Alex Gaynor the
`Q3 2018 Community Service Award <https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-
awards/#september-2018>`_:

*  
*  

RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the Q3 2018 Community
Service Award to Alex Gaynor for his contributions to the Python Community and
the Python Software Foundation. Alex previously served as a PSF Director in
2015-2016. He currently serves as an Infrastructure Staff member and
contributes to legacy PyPI and the next generation warehouse and has helped
legacy warehouse in security (disabling unsupported OpenID) and cutting
bandwidth costs by compressing 404 images.

*  
*  

Alex attended Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, where he received his Bachelor
of Science degree in Computer Science. Originally from Chicago, he is
currently living in Washington DC. In the past, Alex worked for the United
States Digital Service on various impactful projects such as the United States
Refugee Admissions Program and the Veterans Affairs disability benefits
appeals process. He is now working for Mozilla on their Firefox Security Team.

*  
*  

Alex originally began contributing to the Python community by serving on the
PyCon programming committee. “I was fortunate that right after I joined the
community PyCon was in my hometown of Chicago, which made it easy to get
involved.” Alex then decided to take up the responsibility of being a Director
of the Python Software Foundation when the organization was going through many
changes. “[W]e were adopting a `Code of
Conduct <https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/>`_, starting to work on the
new membership model, and significantly growing the grant funding we were
offering. I think my proudest accomplishment is being a part of the team that
kept all of these great initiatives on the rails (I certainly can't take
credit for any of them on my own!); since my time the PSF has significantly
scaled up its ability to help guide and support the global Python community.”

*  
*  

Aside from his contributions to the Python Software Foundation, Alex also
served as a Director of the Django Software Foundation and a member of the
Django core team. As mentioned in the resolution above, Alex is currently
working as a PSF Infrastructure Staff member where he is working on legacy
PyPI and the next generation warehouse. Alex has improved the legacy warehouse
in security by disabling unsupported, the open standard and decentralized
authentication protocol OpenID, as well as in cutting bandwidth costs by
compressing 404 images.

*  
*  

Being on the PSF Infrastructure team with Alex, Director of Infrastructure
Ernest W. Durbin III has enjoyed working with him and appreciates his
contributions to the team:

*  
*  

“Alex has been one of the most steady and reliable motivators for improved
security throughout our entire community. Alex stays ruthlessly up to date on
current best practices and makes a consistent effort to help encourage and
implement pragmatic security at all levels. While far from an exhaustive list,
the Python community can thank Alex for his advocacy and knowledge on rock
solid TLS for `pypi.org <https://pypi.org/>`_, sharing his knowledge and
experience with the Python Security Response Team, and contributions to
security in the Python language as well as core cryptographic libraries on
PyPI.”

*  
*  

Glyph Lefkowitz, creator of the Twisted framework, additionally observed that
Alex’s contributions across multiple projects, from PyCA's Cryptography, to
Django, to CPython, to PyPy to Twisted, have been transformational for the
Python ecosystem, and have, in particular, made it a much safer and more
secure community for users. “When he sees a problem that needs addressing, his
willingness to work across projects and layers is an ongoing source of
inspiration for everyone that calls themselves a 'maintainer',” noted Glyph.

*  
*  

As a long-time member of the Python community, Alex says what he appreciates
most about the community is its commitment to getting more people involved in
Python specifically, and programming in general. He is particularly impressed
by the PSF’s efforts to support the growth of Python on multiple scales. “I
don't think there's any organization like the PSF that does as much work
issuing grants and supporting local groups teaching getting people involved in
coding and Python.”

*  
*  

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/JAw7P-pCNeJx-
nOoXgKgW36jzMMbxutYAwJY4A8fkYnfa34CjJPPFpr2tZaDrlCs1yNhLvU_6bexSGY48Fg7KGy1e_e6PYUltnhqT3pislqjne2tX_zDUWD1Uk8NBZW3JExbw0jr)

*  
*  

Moving forward, Alex hopes to see more knowledge being shared regarding
potential funding in the community. “From PyPI to PyCon and beyond there's a
lot of costs associated with making these community resources happen, and
we've learned a lot about how to raise money to make them happen. I think we
could do a better job sharing these lessons learned with the broader open
source ecosystem and helping to push new innovation in this space.”

*  
*  

Additionally, to anyone out there looking to make impactful contributions to
our community, Alex’s advice is to simply jump in and contribute in whatever
ways that work for you. With numerous volunteering opportunities with the PSF
working groups, local meetups, regional conferences, and many more, it is
easier than ever to be a part of, and help promote the Python community.

*  
*  

As the final note, the PSF would like to congratulate Alex Gaynor again for
this prestigious award, and thank him for his continued contributions to our
organization in particular, and to the general Python community as a whole.

