.. post:: 2019-07-11
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

2019 PSF Fundraiser - Thank you & debrief
=========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2019/07/2019-psf-fundraiser-thank-you-debrief.html>`_.

  
  
Thank you to all who donated to our 2019 Fundraiser, Building the PSF.  Our
fundraiser ended June 30th and we successfully surpassed our goal!  
  

The PSF received over $75,000 in donations!

  

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiPUeoIX-
SwAysbk9_uYCm4HNZVm82Bq17N4pwidKrNJRn9Is8LrjpOcJPT0QeOYye2xP4HTAm2_IrsMz015mT4IAYr6_qqHO0JTMlZqr240AJWbPegt7x6csiWRnjXE50_Vo8/s320/shutterstock_439259542.jpg>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiPUeoIX-
SwAysbk9_uYCm4HNZVm82Bq17N4pwidKrNJRn9Is8LrjpOcJPT0QeOYye2xP4HTAm2_IrsMz015mT4IAYr6_qqHO0JTMlZqr240AJWbPegt7x6csiWRnjXE50_Vo8/s1600/shutterstock_439259542.jpg)

  
To learn about how the Python Software Foundation uses its funding, check out
our Annual Impact Report: <https://www.python.org/psf/annual-report/2019/>.  
  

What did we learn from this experience?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Collaborating with a company that supports our mission was a _tremendous_
help. This was our first fundraiser collaborating with another organization.
JetBrains sold PyCharm licenses at a discounted rate and donated all of the
proceeds to the PSF. This partnership contributed $29,609 to this fundraiser.
We thank JetBrains and their entire team for all of the effort and time they
put into our fundraiser. This opportunity helped us raise more money and
hopefully introduced new people to our community.

  

Additionally, we learned that having a strong beginning is important to reach
our fundraising goal in an appropriate timeframe. Initially, the fundraiser
was going to end at the end of May. Because we weren't close to reaching our
goal of $60,000, we extended the fundraiser twice. Going forward we will have
a better plan in place for an impactful start.  
  
We want to hear from our community. If anyone has any suggestions or comments
about our fundraisers, please don't hesitate to` reach
out <mailto:sponsors@python.org>`_. We aim to have an "open door" policy since
our fundraisers directly impact our community.  
  

Want to collaborate with the PSF on our next fundraiser?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As you know, the Python Software Foundation is a non-profit organization and
depends on sponsorships and donations for revenue, which in turn support
sprints, meetups, community events, Python documentation, fiscal sponsorships,
software development, and community projects.

  

The PSF would love to partner with organizations to support our mission and
help sustain a vibrant community. By working together, we hope to raise more
funding so we can provide more community support! Contact
`sponsors@python.org <mailto:sponsors@python.org>`_ for more information!

  

