.. post:: 2020-12-15
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

PSF Scientific Working Group announces call for grant requests
==============================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2020/12/psf-scientific-working-group-announces.html>`_.

The `Scientific Working Group <https://wiki.python.org/psf/ScientificWG>`_ of
the` Python Software Foundation <https://www.python.org/psf/>`_ is excited to
announce a next call for funding proposals in 2020/2021. The goal of the
Scientific Working Group is to advance the scope, breadth, and utility of
Python for scientific work. This call places specific emphasis on maintainer /
maintenance support, outreach and education, as well as improved
infrastructure & documentation. We would be especially excited to fund
developers within the `Global
South <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_South>`_.

A proposal might be, for example, to implement continuous integration or
overhaul documentation for an existing scientific Python project. Funding is
for a maximum of three months. A brief report, to be provided upon conclusion
of the grant, will inform future extension or expansion of grants.

Funding guidelines are outlined in the `working group
charter <https://wiki.python.org/psf/ScientificWG/Charter_v3>`_, and `previously
funded events and projects <https://wiki.python.org/psf/ScientificWG>`_ are
listed on our homepage. Funding is for up to $4,000 USD per project. Project
maintainers and creators are encouraged to reach out to the Working Group if
they are aware of developers who may benefit from these funds.

We look forward to sharing the work produced by our grant-holders with the
Scientific Python community, and inspiring others to take advantage of these
funding opportunities.

Please submit proposals as directed at <https://www.python.org/psf/grants/>.
We have extended our deadline to consider the first batch of grant requests on
February 15th, 2021, and announce decisions at the end of that month.
Subsequent proposals will be evaluated on a quarterly basis.

  

