.. post:: 2023-06-30
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Announcing the 2023 PSF Board Election Results!
===============================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/06/announcing-2023-psf-board-election.html>`_.



It was a really lively and engaged election process for the PSF Board this
year! First of all, we want to thank everyone who ran and was willing to serve
on the PSF Board. Even if you were not elected, we appreciate all the time and
effort you put into thinking about how to make the PSF better and how to
represent the parts of the community that you participate in. We hope that you
will continue to think about these issues and share your ideas.  
  
Congratulations to our five new Board members-elect!

  * Cheuk Ting Ho
  * Denny Perez
  * Georgi Ker
  * Christopher Neugebauer
  * KwonHan Bae * 

We’ll be in touch with all the elected candidates next week to schedule
onboarding. * The fifth person is being invited to serve for a year to fill
the off-cycle vacancy left by Joannah Nanjekye, who stepped down from the
Board.  

I’d like to take this opportunity to thank our outgoing board members for
their outstanding service; Dustin Ingram, Joannah Nanjekye, Jeff Triplett,
Thomas Wouters and Nina Zakharenko. They served on the PSF Board through a
particularly eventful time; helping us to navigate the global pandemic, rework
PyCon US into a virtual event and hire a new Executive Director. Thank you for
supporting the PSF and the Python community through so much change!  
  
Our heartfelt thanks go out to each of you who took the time to review the
candidates and submit your votes. Your participation helps the PSF represent
our community. We received 621 total votes, which easily reached quorum–1/3 of
affirmed voting members (877). We’re especially grateful for your patience
with navigating the changes to the voting process, which ultimately allowed
for a valid election and a more sustainable elections system.  
  
I also want to thank everyone who helped promote this year’s board election,
especially` Python Community News <https://pythoncommunitynews.com/>`_ who took
the initiative to cover this year’s election and produced informational videos
from each candidate. I also want to highlight the PSF staff members who made
some changes to our membership management on the back-end this year, enabling
us to affirm voting intention for the first time ever and setting up OpaVote.
Thanks to Ee Durbin and Joe Carey!  
  
Finally, it might feel a little early to mention this, but we will have four
seats open again next year. If you're interested in running or learning more,
we encourage you to reach out to a current board member or two this year and
ask them about serving.

