.. post:: 2023-05-29
   :tags: pycon, post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The Python Language Summit 2023: Burnout is Real
================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/05/the-python-language-summit-2023-burnout.html>`_.

Guido van Rossum, creator of the Python programming language, spoke at the
`2023 Python Language Summit <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/05/the-python-
language-summit-2023_29.html>`_ on the subject of open-source burnout,
strategies for tackling it, and how to avoid it.

The first known case of burnout in the field of open-source software, van
Rossum speculated, may have been Charles Babbage, who gave up the post of
Lucasian Professor of Mathematics (the “Chair of Newton”) at Cambridge
University in 1839.

> “In 1839 the demands of the Analytical Engine upon my attention had become
> so incessant and so exhausting, that even the few duties of the Lucasian
> Chair had a sensible effect in impairing my bodily strength. I therefore
> sent in my resignation.”

> \-- _Charles Babbage, “Passages from the Life of a Philosopher” (Chapter 4)_

Van Rossum described how the Python community had been hit multiple times by
core developers, suffering from burnout, suddenly disappearing for extended
periods of time. Van Rossum told the story of one core developer, previously
one of the most prolific contributors to CPython, who had abruptly ceased
contributing around a decade ago. He had hardly been heard from since.

Van Rossum himself, he recounted, had felt so burned out by the acrimonious
debate around `PEP 572 <https://peps.python.org/pep-0572/>`_ (proposing the
“walrus operator”, `:=`), that it `led to him stepping
down <https://lwn.net/Articles/759654/>`_ from his post as Benevolent Dictator
For Life (“BDFL”) of Python in 2018. Decisions about the language were ceded
to `a democratically elected Steering
Council <https://peps.python.org/pep-8016/>`_, which has governed Python ever
since.

Burnout, van Rossum noted, was often connected to conflict – and it often
didn’t matter whether or not you ended the conflict victorious. Merely having
the conflict at all could be exhausting.

Van Rossum’s talk itself was fairly short, but was followed by a lengthy
discussion among the assembled core developers on the experiences they’d had
with burnout, and strategies that could be employed to tackle it.

Several attendees in the room commented that learning to recognise burnout in
yourself was an important skill. Some participants in the discussion described
times when they had suddenly realised that things that had previously been
enjoyable had morphed into a source of stress. One core developer told the
story of a conference they had organised, at which they had felt such extreme
stress that they were unable to think of any of the things that had gone well.
Instead, they found themselves fixated on all of the minor things that had
gone wrong.

Learning to recognise burnout in others was perhaps an even harder problem to
solve. Van Rossum noted that the developers most susceptible to burnout were
generally those who were most active and engaged with the community. But how
can you distinguish between somebody devoting their time to CPython because of
the intense enjoyment they found in contributing to the project, somebody who
might have formed an unhealthy addiction to open source, and somebody who was
only continuing to contribute out of a misplaced sense of obligation?

Some developers spoke of strategies they used to decompress. Brett Cannon
described how he periodically takes “open source breaks”, in which he forces
himself to spend a period of time without looking at his GitHub notifications
or thinking about his open-source commitments. Mariatta Wijaya spoke about how
she found mentoring other Python programmers to be deeply healing. All agreed
that it was crucial to talk to friends and relatives when you were feeling
close to burnout.

It was agreed that the Python community needed to do better in many ways. We
needed to become better, as a community, at understanding when other people
said that they were unable to complete something they had previously committed
to. And perhaps we needed to normalise questions such as, “Hey, you’ve been
super productive and responsive for too long. When do you think you’ll burn
out?”

Russell Keith-Magee remarked that systems with single points of failure were
bound to lead to situations of intense stress. These systems would inevitably,
at some point, fail. The transition from a single BDFL (with an indefinite
term) to a five-member Steering Council with one-year terms had been a very
positive change in that regard, Keith-Magee said. But there were still places
in CPython development where there were single points of failure. Examples
included various esoteric platforms where support from CPython depended on a
single core developer being able to give up their time to review PRs relating
to the platform.

Carol Willing agreed with Keith-Magee, pointing out that no matter who you
were, you were rarely the only person who could do a certain task. You _might_
be the person who could do it fastest or best – but sometimes, it was
important to “see the people, and share the joy”.

Łukasz Langa spoke about his role as part of the current Code of Conduct
Working Group, to which any violations of the `Python Code of
Conduct <https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/>`_ can be reported. Langa remarked
that being part of the Working Group had brought to the fore parts of the
community which he had previously been mostly unaware of. He encouraged
everybody in the room to report toxic members of the community who were
discouraging or aggressive online.

Speaking personally, for a moment: I tried to take an open-source break
earlier this year, when I felt myself close to burning out on some of my open-
source commitments. I can’t say it was fully successful – my addiction to
GitHub was too great for me to resist glancing at my notifications
occasionally. But it was helpful, and re-energising, to spend some time doing
a creative activity that bore with it a 0% risk of people shouting at me on
the internet about it:

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhW9jyCByps_8fSzctINDv6FRBbC8f-H_wz7eVrD_4aEGCy-
hm0H1umibAftp2nXc4KYVrbABUvnLDLEQPmOi5necf69ruuyHTjABgJOyBZ64eO3lBsmHJ4S9ogosVzKVzvGloPjQMVXFWjB6fnD3djhfqsuKTBDxbiuRf4bMf-
yDjpYHs/s320/image_2023-05-27_220847107.png>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhW9jyCByps_8fSzctINDv6FRBbC8f-H_wz7eVrD_4aEGCy-
hm0H1umibAftp2nXc4KYVrbABUvnLDLEQPmOi5necf69ruuyHTjABgJOyBZ64eO3lBsmHJ4S9ogosVzKVzvGloPjQMVXFWjB6fnD3djhfqsuKTBDxbiuRf4bMf-
yDjpYHs/s572/image_2023-05-27_220847107.png)

