.. post:: 2023-06-07
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Affirming your PSF Membership voting status
===========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/06/affirming-your-psf-membership-voting.html>`_.

Every PSF Voting Member (Supporting, Managing, Contributing, and Fellow) needs
to affirm their membership in order to vote in this year’s election.

  

This year’s Board Election begins June 20th, and voter eligibility cut-off is
June 15th. You should have received an email with instructions and you need to
affirm your voting rights before June 15th in order to participate in this
year's Board Election. Email will be from "psf@psfmember.org <Python Software
Foundation>" with subject "[Action Required] Affirm your PSF Membership voting
status"  
  
Why you are being asked to do this:  
  

Section 4.2 of the PSF Bylaws requires that “Members of any membership class
with voting rights must affirm each year to the corporation in writing that
such member intends to be a voting member for such year.”  
  
The PSF has not enforced this in the past, because it was technically
challenging to do so. Now that our voting membership has been completely
consolidated into psfmember.org, we are able to do so.  
  
Our motivation is to ensure that our elections can meet quorum as required by
Section 3.9 of our bylaws. As our membership has grown we have seen that and
increasing number of Contributing, Managing, and Fellow members with
indefinite membership do not engage with our annual election, making quorum
difficult to reach.

You can see your membership record and status on
`psfmember.org <https://psfmember.org/user-information>`_ (note you must be
logged in to view that page). If you are a voting-eligible member and do not
already have a login there, please `sign up <https://psfmember.org/wp-
login.php?action=register>`_ and then email psf-donations@python.org so we can
link your membership to your account. You can click the emailed link to re-
certify without signing in. But please create your account and ensure it is
linked to your membership so that we can ensure we have the most up-to-date
contact information for you in the future.  
  
*What happens next?* You’ll get an email from OpaVote with a ballot on or
before June 20th and then you can vote!

Learn more about membership `here <https://www.python.org/psf/membership/>`_ or
if you have questions about membership or nominations please email psf-
elections@python.org In addition to `Slack <http://psf-board.slack.com/>`_ you
are welcome to join the discussion about the PSF Board election on `our
forum <https://discuss.python.org/c/python-software-foundation/9>`_.

