.. post:: 2023-01-10
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Starting 2023 with momentum, thanks to you!
===========================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/01/starting-2023-with-momentum-thanks-to.html>`_.

We are grateful to each of you who shared or donated to our year-end
fundraiser and membership drive. Over 300 individual donations plus new
Supporting Memberships, renewals, and JetBrains’ generous match came together
to raise $61,868 total for our work supporting Python and the Python
community! This generosity means we can confidently start 2023 by investing in
our key goals for the year, knowing the community is behind us.  
  
Those goals include:  

  * deepening our global reach
  * supporting more community endeavors 
  * making Python even more sustainable, from both an infrastructure and security perspective

Community investment–of money, but also time, energy, ideas, and enthusiasm–is
critical to reaching each of these goals.

Supporting Membership is a great way for the community to invest in the PSF’s
work. We were delighted to meet and then exceed `our
goal <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/11/its-time-for-our-annual-year-end-
psf.html>`_ of 100 new Supporting Members: 174 new Supporting Members stepped up
to become champions of the PSF! It was exciting to see that 29 of those new
Supporting Members were able to join based on `our new sliding scale rate
option <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/12/introducing-new-sliding-scale-
membership.html>`_. Welcome aboard, new members, and thank you for joining us!
We’re looking forward to having your voice take part in the PSF’s future.  
  
Because the PSF doesn’t buy lists or ads, your help in sharing our fundraiser
with your networks makes a big difference, and we really appreciate how many
of you took the extra time to help promote it. We’re excited about where 2023
will take us together, and as always, we’d love to hear your ideas and
feedback. Looking for how to keep in touch with us? You can find all the ways
`here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2022/11/where-is-psf.html>`_.  
  
Wishing you and yours a happy, healthy, and Pythonic new year,  
  
Deb

