.. post:: 2021-02-08
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Jesse Noller is awarded the PSF's Distinguished Service Award
=============================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/02/jesse-noller-is-awarded-psfs.html>`_.

 On January 27, 2021 the Python Software Foundation awarded the Distinguished
Service Award to Jesse Noller:

RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the 2021 Distinguished
Service Award to Jesse Noller for his significant contributions to Python as a
core developer, PyCon US Chair, and PSF board member.

Jesse Noller has had an essential role in the growth of the Python community.
His influence on the Python community spanned contributions to the language
itself, transforming PyCon US, and strengthening the Python Software
Foundation, and these contributions laid the groundwork for so much of our
success in the years following his contribution.

As a Python core developer, he was responsible for the addition of
multiprocessing to the Python Standard Library, making parallel execution of
Python code easily accessible to Python developers for the first time.

He championed the Python Software Foundation’s transformation from an
invitation-based organization to one with an open membership model. This
created an environment where the Foundation’s membership and Board could
become representative of the entire Python community, not just of a select
few.

Building upon the Foundation’s Diversity statement, he guided the Foundation
to adopt its first Code of Conduct, setting the Foundation on a path where all
members of the Python community could thrive.

He stewarded PyCon US through its 2012 and 2013 rotation, and continued as
sponsor liaison for 2014, transforming the event from a volunteer-operated
event to one with an operations staff and more than double the attendance.
This helped turn PyCon US into a revenue source that could fund the
Foundation’s growth and increase its outreach. Remarkably, he achieved this
transformation without diminishing the conference’s community focus.

Through the transformation of PyCon US, Jesse was able to lead the Foundation
to make meaningful financial commitments to support the core infrastructure
Python developers use every day.

While individually any of these contributions are worthy of recognition,
Jesse’s contributions all served to enable more people to meaningfully
participate in Python: through creating space for more people to participate
in the Python Software Foundation, for more people to attend PyCon US and
learn from the community’s leaders, and for more people to benefit from a
financially resilient Foundation.

Jesse’s past contributions transformed the Python community and its
institutions, and are felt to this day. We are truly grateful for his service.

To recognize this lasting legacy on the Python community, the Python Software
Foundation awards Jesse Noller the `Distinguished Service
Award <https://www.python.org/community/awards/psf-distinguished-awards/>`_.

Written by: Christopher Neugebauer with input from other directors and staff!

