.. post:: 2021-11-24
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Loren Crary has joined the PSF as its Director of Resource Development
======================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/11/loren-crary-has-joined-psf-as-its.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is excited to welcome Loren Crary as our
new Director of Resource Development!

`![ <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEi9UA9OY-c63cp7JfxrSpqAmTXBK-2sGkIL4l6MinIC-
R_LyM_CDDDRIZYmC80PwOumRPujpOTE1w-NoKOmvtJHqjP63lxVWRyiiUAICzdkvscCRBTmPZllWcBJJ8SrCVQTnNUZaQihZCM9RnFc58BGjFEWtwVIh11H7eZideoJcLQ7fvjZ=s320>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/a/AVvXsEi9UA9OY-c63cp7JfxrSpqAmTXBK-2sGkIL4l6MinIC-
R_LyM_CDDDRIZYmC80PwOumRPujpOTE1w-NoKOmvtJHqjP63lxVWRyiiUAICzdkvscCRBTmPZllWcBJJ8SrCVQTnNUZaQihZCM9RnFc58BGjFEWtwVIh11H7eZideoJcLQ7fvjZ=s400)

  

Financial sustainability is critical to the PSF and the entire Python
ecosystem as Python continues to grow in popularity. Financial sustainability
will ensure we can continue providing initiatives such as our international
Grants Program, supporting fiscal projects, producing PyCon US, maintaining
community infrastructure such as pypi.org and python.org, supporting roles
such as Python's new Developer-in-Residence and the new Packaging Project
manager, and delivering on strategic goals the PSF Board sets in place.

With that in mind, we knew we needed an expert to spearhead fundraising
efforts and we're very luckily to have been able to hire Loren as that expert!
Loren will be focusing on all aspects of fundraising including sponsorships,
fundraisers, grants, donor stewardship, as well as supporting the PSF Board
with their fundraising efforts.

Loren spent most of the last decade leading revenue strategy for Educate!, a
nonprofit social enterprise, as it scaled by 5x in both budget and impact. (In
that work she got to spend a lot of time in Rwanda, Kenya, and especially
Ugandaâ€”and she is excited to connect with the active Python communities in
that part of the world!) She is a lawyer by training, with a JD from Stanford
Law School, where she focussed on public interest law.

Loren is jumping into the software space, learning Python for the first time,
and seeking all opportunities to learn about and from the dynamic and
welcoming Python community.

Welcome, Loren! We are super excited about the impact your work will have on
Python and its community.

  

