.. post:: 2021-06-05
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The 2021 Python Language Summit: What Should I Work on as a Core Dev?
=====================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/06/the-2021-python-language-summit-what.html>`_.

At the `2021 Python Language
Summit <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/05/the-2021-python-language-
summit.html>`_, `Eric Snow <https://twitter.com/ericsnowcrntly>`_ gave a
presentation about how core developers can receive guidance to help them work
on improvements to the language that will bring the most benefit to the Python
community.  

`![Eric
Snow <https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgpFMFNiXZnWghIKofzs-
BAY1flplnqDEuOK17aF-
WuefmVvJ6hjOPbycuKaj80c3s311TI6-wtgW70H2vlH7xbiZNuqiRR3KnQ3NrEZFPY8MHV0F87yr8CtpxSVwpb-2iBffE/s16000/eric-
snow.png>`_](https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgpFMFNiXZnWghIKofzs-
BAY1flplnqDEuOK17aF-
WuefmVvJ6hjOPbycuKaj80c3s311TI6-wtgW70H2vlH7xbiZNuqiRR3KnQ3NrEZFPY8MHV0F87yr8CtpxSVwpb-2iBffE/s460/eric-
snow.png)

What Does the Community Need?
-----------------------------

When Eric Snow first got involved in core development over a decade ago, he
liked that there was so much to learn. But he found that the organization
didn't offer a lot of direction in terms of guiding volunteers to the kind of
work that would have the biggest impact.

Over the years, he's thought about how he and other contributors decide what
to work on and why. What directs the efforts of contributors and core
developers? Contributors make decisions based on their availability,
expertise, and interests. Core developers need to act as stewards for the
language. There's plenty of collaboration that goes on, but everyone has their
own idea of what the community needs, what would be interesting to work on,
and what the Python language needs. As a result, it can be hard to see the
bigger picture.

Would a PM Help?  
------------------

Time and time again, he has asked himself what he can work on to best help the
Python community. We all care about this language and the community that
surrounds it, so we want to help it as much as we can. Sometimes, it's hard to
get a sense of what will help the community and the language the most from our
own limited, individual perspectives.

One solution could be to have a dedicated PM who can provide the direction
that we've been missing. This person could be provided by the PSF or a
sponsoring organization. They could compile and maintain a list of
improvements that would be most beneficial to the community. They wouldn't
dictate what would be worked on, but they could surface what the community
needs.

There has been talk of the Steering Council providing a road map. Having a PM
could help:

  * Provide a clear picture of what that road map could look like
  * Help developers and maintainers make decisions about where to spend their time as volunteers
  * Facilitate collaboration  

Discussion  
------------

Eric Snow was interested in hearing whether or not other core developers would
find a PM helpful.  

`Luciano
Ramalho <https://twitter.com/ramalhoorg?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor>`_
said that he was strongly in favor of having a PM who could assess the needs
of the community from the perspective of the community rather than only the
perspective of core developers. This idea overlaps with the questions he
raised in `his lightning
talk <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/06/the-2021-python-language-
summit.html>`_ at this summit. He also mentioned that Go has a PM role similar
to what Eric Snow was suggesting.

Other attendees discussed how this kind of role could be funded and considered
how much benefit the role could bring considering that the PSF is working with
limited `financial resources <https://www.python.org/psf/donations/>`_. They
also discussed the differences between a Product Manager and a Program Manager
and determined that this role would be more like a Program Manager.

