.. post:: 2021-10-26
   :tags: post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Vicky Twomey-Lee Awarded the PSF Community Service Award for Q3 2021
====================================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2021/10/vicky-twomey-lee-awarded-psf-community.html>`_.

`Vicky Twomey-Lee <https://twitter.com/whykay>`_, software engineer, `PyLadies
Dublin <https://twitter.com/pyladiesdub>`_ founder, `EuroPython
Society <https://ep2012.europython.eu/blog/2012/07/08/change-board-europython-
society>`_ emeritus board member, Coding Grace co-founder, `Women Who Code
Dublin <https://ep2012.europython.eu/blog/2012/07/08/change-board-europython-
society>`_ director, and `WITS <http://witsireland.com/governance/>`_ member, have
been awarded the Python Software Foundation 2021 Q3 Community Service Award.

> RESOLVED, that the Python Software Foundation award the Q3 2021 Community
> Service Award to Vicky Twomey-Lee. Vicky has been a PSF Fellow since 2012
> and a long-time volunteer to several PSF and Python spaces. 7 years ago she
> founded and continues to help organize the PyLadies Dublin chapter.
> Additionally, Vicky has been an active contributor to the PSF's Grant WG
> since the beginning and continues to provide helpful feedback and reviews.
> She also helps with EuroPython, Python Ireland, and past PyCon Ireland
> events.

We interviewed Vicky to learn more about her inspiration and work with the
Python community. We also asked several of Vicky's associates - including
Cheukting Ho, Steve Holden, Marc-Andre Lemberg, and Lais Carvalho to share
more light about Vicky's community efforts and her impact on the community.

The Origin Story
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*What are your earliest memories of how you got into tech?*

  

It was undoubtedly thanks to my dad. I remember when I was a few years old,
and I woke up in the middle of the night, and I heard this "click-click" sound
with a green glow lighting up my dad's face. He was big into tech. I think he
was one of the few who imported computers for work and personal interests in
the early 80s.

  

And as I got older,  I initially played games, but then I got to install
programs and even upgrade hardware. My dad brought my younger brother and me
to all the techie and game shows coming to our small city, Limerick.

  

Then in 1984, a very unique and memorable present my dad brought back from
Hong Kong, a Nintendo Famicom, changed everything. I got into video games big
time. Fast forward to my late teens. I was interested in graphics and was
qualified to get into Graphic Design at one of the best art colleges at the
time. Still, unfortunately, I had to repeat my final year in secondary school
as my parents wanted me to go to university instead.

  

I didn't have enough Chinese to explain graphics design, so I studied Computer
Systems at the University of Limerick.

  

Besides my studies, I experimented with HTML (there wasn't even CSS back then)
during those dial-up days and then progressed to hosting and designing my own
blogs at home.

  

And then, there was my first job at Sun Microsystem, where I met my husband -
`Michael Twomey <https://twitter.com/micktwomey>`_ \- we were into the same
things, and Python was the first language we got excited about, around 2002.
We attended and ran Python-related events together (amongst other initiatives
like diversity in tech and game jams).

  

We still get very excited about lots of geeky things, and in the last number
of years, it was around electronics.

Involvement with the Python community
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

*What was your earliest involvement with the Python community?*

*  
*

When Python Ireland's first meetup started in 2004, I was an attendee along
with Michael. When it got rebooted in 2005, the folks wanted to organize talks
(note that Meetup and Eventbrite didn't exist back then), so I thought it
shouldn't be too hard to find a space and get speakers.

  

Somehow I ended up taking the ball and running with it for over a decade,
though I stepped back in 2016.

  

*What drives and inspires you into volunteering your time and resources in
the Python Community - PyLadies Dublin, Python Ireland, PyCon Ireland, and
EuroPython?*

*  
*

It is the community because it helped me get to where I am today. Everyone was
so friendly and explained things if you didn't understand.

  

What drives me?

  

I think it is knowing that these groups can provide opportunities that have
afforded me lots of weird and wonderful experiences and jobs. Like a
researcher and curator for `Dublin Science Gallery for an exhibition called
GAME <https://dublin.sciencegallery.com/game>`_, part of a team to run a meetup
of all meetups (my dream) called `404.ie <http://404.ie/>`_ at a fantastic
venue. Connecting even more communities at the new hip, up-and-coming co-
sharing space called Dogpatch Labs.

  

I know what it's like to feel lost and scared in a field I work and volunteer.
I realize that I have a platform to help those who are curious and want to
learn more, connect with others, and I want them to feel welcome and be part
of the community.

  

And hopefully, in turn, some of them will pass that same sentiment on and
welcome others into the community.

  

Yes, I get pushbacks, but I have my husband, family, and friends who look out
for me.

  

And I have to highlight my wonderful husband, Michael. He's been my rock,
intervened when it got too much for me, picked up and tidied things away for
me when I was talking to people before and after events.

  

And EuroPython is finally coming to Dublin!

  

That's the reason why we started up PyCon Ireland in 2010 (I chaired the first
four editions). Since then, the Irish Python community has made it successful
year on year, and the goal is in sight.

  

We are looking forward to seeing everyone in person (it was postponed twice
due to Covid-19, so the third time's the charm) in Dublin, Ireland.

  

And the PSF Grants Workgroup?

  

I wanted to do more and was delighted to get invited to join the PSF Grants
Workgroup. It was a small way for me to give back. I know what it's like to
try and run something when you don't have any support. No one knows about your
group/event, and starting from scratch is super hard.

  

I have learned a lot from the various communities worldwide on their needs for
help to run their events.

  

*How has your involvement within the Python community helped your career?  *

*  
*

I was learning to be a leader, mentor, organizer, and diversity in tech
advocate. It helped me stay grounded as I saw all the excellent work done by
the PSF, EuroPython, and PyLadies.  

  

It's pointed me in the direction of advocating for diversity in tech and the
creative tech community and the importance of STEM in education.

  

So I have very different and unusual jobs as a result.

  

*How has Covid affected your work with the Python community, and what steps
are you taking to push the community forward during these trying times?*

*  
*

I've been working from home for a while, but with Covid-19, I learned how to
stream. I had experience running live streams and podcasts with Dublin Maker,
and I used these skills to run PyLadies Dublin remotely.

  

I already have skills in creating media and editing videos. I noticed I have a
shorter attention span when watching videos, so I've shortened our events to 1
hour and opened opportunities to collaborate with international groups and
invite speakers abroad.

  

I also realized not to fret if there's a low attendance during live events as
people will (re)watch the videos in their own time. So not stressing about
live attendance helped me produce a better experience for guests and viewers
at our events.

  

Other problems I noticed are people with "zoom" fatigue, so people are a lot
more understanding of mistakes. We are more patient and supportive. We are
looking forward to in-person events again and are wondering how we will do a
hybrid event.

  

Plus, learning and being in awe of what EuroPython organizers and teams have
done in the past two editions.

  

It's always about learning, not being afraid to fail, and trying other things
until it works for you. Of course, it's good to collaborate with others. You
can't do everything on your own. With everything remote right now, it's an
excellent opportunity to try different ways of running events.

  

Besides all that, I am working part-time with a company called
`Yard <http://yard.live/>`_. And we are looking at how we can help tech
communities rebuild their groups after Covid-19. So that's interesting for me
on a personal level with all my various community groups.

  

*Vicky Twomey-Lee Impact Story on the Python community*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cheukting Ho, EuroPython, speaks on Vicky's contributions to the Python
community in Dublin:

  

Besides being a fantastic leader in her community in Dublin, Vicky also helps
other communities to connect. I would always reach out to her to invite more
people to join my Python events.

  

Steve Holden supported Vicky's PSF fellow nomination and shared more on
Vicky's impact:

  

By creating (and remaining a mainstay of) PyCon IE, Vicky gave Irish Python
programmers the chance to see themselves as a community. Her other work to
improve diversity and support the entry of more women into the tech field is
also impacting.

  

Marc-Andre Lemburg nominated Vicky as a PSF fellow and has worked closely with
her on the `EuroPython Society Board <https://www.europython-society.org/eps-
members/>`_ since 2012. He speaks on Vicky's impact:

  

Vicky is highly positive, kind, and very supportive of people in the community
and its organizations. She has made a real difference for Python in Ireland
and helped seed the foundations of the community in Ireland.

  

Lais Carvalho from Python Ireland also speaks on Vicky's impact:

  

Vicky is a highly hardworking person interested in making the community as
diverse and inclusive as possible. She works non-stop to accomplish such
goals, to the point of mild exhaustion. Her impact has been significant with
PyLadies, the Dublin Maker events, and Python Ireland.

  

The Python Software Foundation congratulates and celebrates Vicky Twomey-Lee.

