.. post:: 2011-03-12
   :tags: summerofcode, post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

Now Accepting Applications for Google Summer of Code Projects
=============================================================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/03/now-accepting-applications-for-google.html>`_.

The PSF is preparing its submission to participate in the Google Summer of
Code again this year. The first step in that process is to solicit
applications from projects that want to participate, and the call for
submissions is now officially open.

Google Summer of Code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Google Summer of Code <http://socghop.appspot.com/site/home/site>`_ (GSoC)
offers stipends to college students who write code for open source software
projects. The program works by pairing students with mentors from
participating projects to benefit both groups. Students are exposed to real-
world software development practices, and the mentoring projects gain new
contributors. More than 4,500 students and 4,000 mentors have participated in
the program since its beginning in 2005. Contributions have come from over 85
countries around the world, making GSoC a truely global effort to improve the
state of open source software.

Requirements for Participating Projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Although any project is able to apply to participate directly in the Google
Summer of Code, the application period with Google is closed for this year.
Fortunately, the PSF also sponsors Python-related projects that need an
umbrella organization to assist with the administration work for GSoC. In
order to qualify for PSF sponsorship, projects must be prepared to provide at
least three mentors to act as guides for students over the course of the
summer. Projects also needs a well-defined method of team communication, such
as a mailing list or dedicated IRC channel.

To submit your project for consideration, fill out the `online
application <https://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=dHh3WFNGYzkyWWE0ZjM1eFFoUUVGWmc6MQ>`_.
More details about the PSF's involvement in GSoC is available on the `2011
Summer of Code
page <http://wiki.python.org/moin/SummerOfCode/2011?action=show&redirect=SummerOfCode>`_.

