.. post:: 2011-04-21
   :tags: election, membership, post, legacy-blogger
   :author: Python Software Foundation
   :category: Legacy
   :location: World
   :language: en

The PSF Elects New Members
==========================

*This was originally posted on blogger* `here <https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2011/04/psf-elects-new-members.html>`_.

The Python Software Foundation is pleased to announce the roster of new
nominated members chosen during the most recent round of elections. Nominated
members are individuals or entities who have demonstrated a commitment to the
Python language and community. They are nominated and elected by existing
members of the Foundation. For more information about membership in the Python
Software Foundation, refer to the `FAQ <http://python.org/psf/membership/>`_.

Ned Batchelder
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ned Batchelder organizes the Boston Python Meetup group and is a frequent
PyCon speaker. He maintains coverage.py, a widely-used module for analyzing
test coverage of source code. Most recently, he has been working with others
in the Boston meetup group to create workshops with the goal of increasing the
diversity of our community.

Vern Ceder
^^^^^^^^^^

Vern Ceder is the author of the _Quick Python Book_ , second edition. He has
presented a number of times about using Python for education. Vern has also
been involved in PyCon US as the originator and organizer of the poster
session, a new feature of the conference added in 2010.

Rick Copeland
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Rick Copeland is a programmer and the author of _Essential SQLAlchemy_. He has
contributed to the TurboGears project and several templating languages. Rick
also speaks regularly at the the Atlanta Python users' group.

Brian Curtin
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Brian Curtin manages the PSF Sprints project and _Python Insider_ , the blog
for python-dev. He also participates in the program and organizing committees
for PyCon US. As a core committer, Brian has helped secure and manage MSDN
licenses for the core development team.

Maciej Fijalkowski
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Maciej Fijalkowski is an active member of the PyPy project and one of its lead
developers. He has continued to help with issues that span between PyPy and
CPython. Maciej also regularly attends PyCon, speaks there, and participated
in both summits and sprints.

Yannick Gingras
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Yannick Gingras is the organizer for the Montreal Python user group. He
introduced a Python track into the Confoo PHP conference. Yannick also
contributes to the Packaging project and Django documentation translation.

Daniel Greenfeld
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Danny has contributed extensively in the Django and Pinax ecosystems, and is
the author of the Django Packages web system that allows people to compare and
select the packages they need to build their applications. He has also been
active on the PyCon Program Committee over the past two years.

Jonathan Hartley
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Jonathan Hartley is a Python developer from the UK. In the last few years he
has been a regular speaker at PyCon US, EuroPython, and PyCon UK. Jonathan is
also involved in the London Python scene, PyWeek, and many other Python-
related activities.

Philip Jenvey
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Philip Jenvey is a founder of the Pylons project. He is also a core developer
of Jython, CPython, and SQLAlchemy. His contributions range from
implementation, recruiting developers, bug triage, advocacy, and managing the
project release cycles.

Brian K. Jones
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Brian K. Jones is a programmer, author, and trainer. He has delivered Python
tutorials at conferences including PICC and PyCon. Brian is the co-editor,
along with David Beazley, of the upcoming _Python Cookbook_ , 3rd Edition from
O'Reilly. He is the former Editor in Chief of _Python Magazine_ , which he
also created in collaboration with the publisher.

Jonathan LaCour
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Jonathan LaCour has contributed to the TurboGears and Elixir projects. He also
speaks regularly at PyCon. His company, ShootQ, is a Python success story.

Mike Orr
^^^^^^^^

Mike Orr is a contributor on the Cheetah, Quixote, and Pylons projects. He
helped found SeaPIG (the Seattle Python Interest Group) and co-leads it. Mike
has also written several articles about PyCon and Python in _Linux Gazette_.

Fabio Pliger
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Fabio Pliger is one of the founders of PyCon Italia, and is one of the head
organisers for EuroPython this year, since the PyCon Italia team is running
the conference. He has also contributed to other conferences and has
encouraged the collaboration between Python communities in several European
countries.

Ronald Oussoren
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ronald Oussoren is a core contributor to CPython. He has made significant
contributions to the Mac OS port of CPython, especially through PyObjC.

Lennart Regebro
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lennart Regebro is a long time Python developer and author of the recently
released _Porting to Python 3_. He's also a contributor to distribute and has
taken a leading role in porting Zope-related packages to Python 3.

Gregory Smith
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Gregory Smith is a long-time contributor to CPython. He oversaw the
integration of the BerkeleyDB module into the standard library and currently
contributes to the hashlib, subprocess, and unittest modules. Gregory also
works on issues related to concurrency and 64-bit architectures.

Richard Taylor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Richard Taylor helps organize PyCon UK and EuroPython. He has also contributed
to several projects, including kamaelia and GRAMPS. Richard was the technical
reviewer for _Beginning Python: From Novice to Professional_

